106
CORN BREAD
1/2 cup corn-meal
1/2 cake compressed yeast,
1 3/4 cups water
softened in 1/3 cup warm
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
water
2 tablespoons sugar
2 3/4 to 3 cups flour (enough
1 tablespoon shortening
to make medium dough)
Cook the corn-meal in the water ten minutes; add salt, sugar
and fat to the mush. Cool until lukewarm, stirring occasionally
to prevent a film. When cool add the yeast and beat well.
Add the flour and mix well. Knead, using as little flour on
the board as possible. Put into a greased bowl, let rise until
it almost doubles in bulk. Work it down and let it rise again.
Mold it into loaves, place in pan and let rise until it has almost
doubled in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven (400° to 350° F.).
RAISIN BREAD
2 cups scalded milk
1/2 to 1 yeast cake softened in
2 tablespoons shortening
1/2 cup warm water
1/4 cup molasses
White flour to make a medium
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
dough
3/4 cup raisins, chopped and floured
Follow general directions for making bread, either sponge
method (page 100) or straight dough method (page 100). Add
raisins after the bread is kneaded.
GRAHAM BREAD
2 cups scalded milk
1/2 to 1 yeast cake softened in
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 cup warm water
2 tablespoons molasses or
1 cup wheat flour
2 tablespoons sugar
About 5 cups graham flour
Follow general directions for making bread, adding only the
white flour at first. Let the mass stand in a warm place until
light. Stir in graham flour to make a stiff batter. Pour into
a
baking-dish and when it has almost doubled in bulk bake for
one hour in a moderate oven (400° to 350° F.). If a less moist
bread is desired, enough flour, part white and part graham,
may be used to make a dough and the bread may be made by
the straight dough method (page 100).
I26
BAKING POWDER BISCUIT PIE CRUST-This is sometimes used
to top a meat pie or a deep dish fruit pie where a rich crust is
not desired. Follow directions for baking-powder biscuit, roll-
ing the crust to about one-fourth inch thick, or drop it as for
emergency biscuit, leaving a small opening in the middle for
the escape of steam.
PECAN ROLLS-Spread biscuit dough with shortening, brown
sugar and pecans. Roll and cut into 1-inch slices. Bake in skillet,
muffin tins or on cookie sheet with sugar-nut mixture instead of
fruit as for Upside-Down Cakes. See page 476.
DATE BISCUITS
Add one-half cup dates, stoned and quartered, to the recipe
for baking-powder biscuits.
SODA BISCUIT
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons shortening
1 cup thick sour milk
Follow directions for baking-powder biscuit. The dough
should be stiffer than for baking-powder biscuit.
SCONES
2 cups flour
4 tablespoons shortening
4 teaspoons baking-powder
2/3 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
Mix and sift the flour, baking-powder and salt, and chop in
the shortening. Add sufficient milk to make a soft dough.
Toss on a floured board and roll into a sheet one-half inch thick.
Shape with a small round cookie-cutter. Bake on a griddle,
turning so that both sides are cooked to a delicate brown. Lay
a napkin on a plate, arrange the scones on it and fold the corners
of the napkin over them. Split and butter while hot.
SALLY LUNN
1/2 cup shortening
2 cups flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1 egg
Cream the shortening with the sugar. Mix and sift together
the flour and baking-powder and add to the creamed mixture,
QUICK BREADS
127
alternating with the milk. Add the beaten egg and bake in a
loaf or in muffin-pans, in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
When fresh huckleberries are in season, one cup stirred in
just before baking will be an agreeable addition.
SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT
2 cups flour
1/3 cup shortening
1 teaspoon salt
Milk and water
Sift the flour with the salt. With the tips of fingers work
in shortening and moisten to a stiff dough with equal quantities
of milk and water mixed. Place on floured board and beat
with rolling-pin for at least one-half hour, folding the dough
every few minutes. Roll to one-third inch thick, shape with
a biscuit-cutter about two inches in diameter, prick with fork
and place on greased baking-sheet or inverted dripping-pan.
Bake twenty minutes in hot oven (400°-425° F.). They
should be light, of even grain, and should crack at the edges
like crackers.
SPOON CORN BREAD
2 cups water
1 tablespoon shortening
1 cup white corn-meal
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
2 eggs
Mix the water and corn-meal and bring slowly to the boil-
ing-point. Cook five minutes. Add the milk, shortening, salt
and well-beaten eggs. Beat thoroughly and bake in a well-
greased pan for twenty-five minutes at 400° F. Serve from the
same dish with a spoon.
SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD
1/4 cup of fat and cracklings
1/2 teaspoon salt
from pork, beef, or chicken
1 cup corn-meal
fat
2 eggs
3 cups boiling water
Add fat and cracklings to the water, and when boiling
sprinkle in the salt and corn-meal, stirring constantly. Cook
in a double boiler one hour, cool, and add the well-beaten eggs.
Turn into a greased baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven
(350° F.) three-fourths of an hour.
I28
NORTHERN JOHNNY CAKE
2 cups corn-meal
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 cups sour milk
2 eggs
2 tablespoons shortening
1 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons sugar, white or
1 tablespoon cold water
brown
Cook together the meal, milk, shortening, sugar and salt in
a double boiler for about twenty minutes. Allow the mixture
to cool, then add the well-beaten eggs and the soda dissolved
in the water. Bake in a shallow iron or granite pan for about
thirty minutes at 400° F.
In case there is not time to cook and cool the meal, the fol-
lowing method of mixing may be used. Mix and sift together
the meal, sugar, salt and soda, add the sour milk gradually, then
the well-beaten eggs and the melted fat. Bread made by this
method does not have as good texture as that made by the first
method.
NEW ENGLAND CORN CAKE
1 cup corn-meal
1 egg
1 cup white flour
1 cup milk
3 teaspoons baking-powder
2 tablespoons melted short-
2 tablespoons sirup
ening
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the egg light, add
the milk, shortening and sirup. Stir into the dry mixture and
beat well. Pour into a well-greased, shallow pan and bake
at 400° F. twenty-five to thirty minutes.
SOUTHERN CORN BREAD
1 cup sour milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon soda dissolved in
1 1/2 cups corn-meal
1 teaspoon water
White of one egg beaten stiff
1 egg-yolk
and added last
Mix in the order given and bake in muffin-tins or in a shallow
pan in a moderate to hot oven (400°-425° F.) for twenty
minutes.
To be real Southern corn-bread, this should be made of white
corn-meal made from the whole grain.
QUICK BREADS
I29
HONEY SANDWICH BREAD
1/2 cup bran
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup graham flour
1 cup milk
1 cup white flour
1/3 cup honey
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 egg
Mix and sift the dry ingredients together. Add the nuts,
mix, and add milk, honey and beaten egg. Beat thoroughly.
Pour into a greased oblong bread-pan and bake one hour at
400° F.
BOSTON BROWN BREAD
1 cup corn-meal
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup rye flour
3/4 cup molasses
1 cup graham flour
2 cups sour milk or
3/4 tablespoon soda
1 3/4 cups sweet milk
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Mix the molasses and milk
and add to the dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly and turn into
well-greased molds, filling each mold about two-thirds full.
Cover and steam three hours. Remove the covers and bake the
bread (375° F.) long enough to dry it off.
RAISIN BREAD
2 cups corn-meal
1 1/2 cups sour milk
1 cup Graham flour
1 egg
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon soda
3 tablespoons baking-powder
1 cup raisins
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the raisins and toss
lightly together. Add the other ingredients. Mix thoroughly
and steam for two and three-quarters hours.
WHOLE WHEAT SANDWICH
4 cups whole-wheat flour
8 teaspoons baking-powder
1/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup seedless raisins
1 egg
1/2 cup chopped nuts
2 cups milk
2 teaspoons salt
Mix the dry ingredients, add the nuts and raisins, add the
milk and egg and beat thoroughly. Turn into a greased pan.
Let the dough rise for fifteen minutes. Bake one hour in
a
moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
I30
DATE BRAN BREAD
2 cups bran
2/3 cup dates cut in small
2 cups white flour
pieces
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups milk
3 tablespoons sugar
1 egg
4 teaspoons baking-powder
2 tablespoons melted short-
ening
Sift the dry ingredients together, add the dates, toss lightly
together and add the milk. Mix well and add beaten egg and
melted fat. Turn into a greased pan or mold and cover with
oiled paper. Steam for three hours.
QUICK NUT BREAD
2 cups bread flour
1 whole egg
1/2 cup sugar
Yolk 1 egg
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup finely chopped walnut
5 tablespoons shortening
or other meats
Mix and sift flour, sugar, baking-powder and salt. Work in
shortening as for biscuit; then add egg and egg-yolk well-
beaten, milk and chopped nut meats. Beat thoroughly and turn
into a buttered bread pan. Let stand twenty minutes; then
bake at 400° F. forty to fifty minutes. This is a delicious bread
for sandwiches.
PRUNE RYE BREAD
2 cups sifted rye flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 cups sifted wheat flour
1 egg, slightly beaten
6 teaspoons baking powder
1 3/4 cups milk
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 cup cooked prunes,
chopped
Sift together dry ingredients. Combine egg and milk, and
add to flour mixture, stirring only until well mixed; stir in
prunes. Turn into greased loaf pans and bake in moderate oven
(350° F.) about 1 hour. Yield: 2 loaves, 6x3 inches, or 1
sandwich loaf, 11x3x3 inches.
SANDWICHES
I49
PIMIENTO AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES
3/4 cup pimiento
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Butter
1/4 cup anchovy paste
1/2 teaspoon tabasco sauce
Salt
Rub pimientos to a paste with creamed butter and season
with tabasco sauce, lemon-juice, anchovy paste and salt. Spread
between thin buttered slices of whole-wheat bread.
RADISH AND HAM SANDWICHES
1/2 cup potted ham
1/2 cup sliced radishes
1/4 to 1/2 cup mayonnaise
Peel and slice radishes, dip them in rich, thick mayonnaise,
and lay on thin slices of bread covered with potted ham.
TOMATO AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES
4 tomatoes
Lettuce leaves
1/4 to 1/2 cup mayonnaise
Spread thin slices of buttered bread with mayonnaise, cover
with a crisp lettuce leaf and spread with peeled, chilled toma-
toes sliced thin. Cover with a second slice of bread, and cut
into desired shape. Crisp bacon is a pleasing addition.
WATERCRESS SANDWICHES
1 1/4 cups cress
2 tablespoons lemon-juice or
Paprika
1/4 cup mayonnaise
Sprinkle cress with salt, paprika, and lemon-juice, or mix
with mayonnaise. Lay between slices of brown bread.
THE PIE CANAPÉ
An attractive canapé plate may be made by cutting twice
horizontally, through a round loaf of rye bread. The slice
should be 3/4 inch thick and free of crust. Spread with soft-
ened butter and mayonnaise dressing. Mark in circles as guides
with increasingly larger articles-a small cookie cutter at
center, a large cutter, a bowl, a small plate, and decorate in
180
milk, flour, and butter. Rub the cooked fish through a sieve.
Combine the fish and sauce. Season and serve.
PUREE OF PEAS AND TOMATOES
1/2 pound dried yellow split
1 or 2 celery tops
peas
Salt and pepper
1 pint tomatoes
1 tablespoon flour
1 quart water
1 tablespoon butter
1 onion
Soak peas over night in water enough to cover them three or
four inches. Drain, and put into a saucepan with the tomatoes,
water, sliced onion, and celery tops. Cook until the peas are
tender. Mash through a sieve. Season with salt and pepper.
Bind with a roux made of the flour and butter, and serve,
garnished with a thin slice of tomato or lemon and a few
canned peas if available. Serve with bread croutons.
SPLIT PEA OR LIMA BEAN PUREE
1 cup split peas or dried lima
2 tablespoons butter or
beans
other fat
2 quarts water
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon flour
Celery salt
1 teaspoon onion-juice
Soak peas or beans all night, then put them over the fire with
water and bring to a boil. Cook slowly, until soft. Rub
through a sieve, heat, and thicken with roux of flour and
fat. Season with salt, pepper, celery salt, and onion-juice.
Stir or beat until smooth and serve with croutons.
Cold Fruit Purées
In hot weather, cold fruit purées are sometimes preferred to
hot soups. They are always served in cups, usually of glass,
and with a few pieces of the fruit floating on the surface. They
should be thoroughly chilled. The trays of the mechanical
refrigerator are excellent for this purpose. These fruit purées
are really as closely related to the appetizers as to the soups.
SOUPS
I8I
CHERRY PUREE
Juice from 1 quart of tart
2 teaspoons arrowroot
cherries, freshly stewed or
Grated rind of 1 lemon
canned
Heat the juice from the cherries. Add arrowroot moistened
with cold water, stirring the mixture rapidly to prevent the
forming of lumps. Flavor with the grated lemon-rind. Serve
very cold, with a whole cherry floating on each portion.
ORANGE PUREE
2 cups orange-juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon corn-starch
1 teaspoon grated orange-
2 tablespoons cold water
rind
Place orange-juice in saucepan and when it is thoroughly
heated add the corn-starch mixed with the cold water. Cook
slowly until clear. Add sugar and grated orange-rind. Serve
ice-cold in glass sherbet cups.
RASPBERRY PUREE
1/2 cup granulated tapioca
2 cups raspberries
6 cups water
Sugar
1/2 cup currant-juice
Boil tapioca in water and currant-juice. When tapioca is
transparent, add raspberries and sugar to taste. Set aside to
cool. Serve ice-cold in sherbet-glasses.
Bisques
BISQUE OF CLAMS
24 clams in the shell
2 cups water
2 cups rich milk or white
1 tablespoon chopped celery
stock or part of each
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1 tablespoon butter
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon flour
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Scrub the
clams thoroughly, then pack into pot with a tight-fitting lid,
using 1/2 cup water to steam. When all have popped open,
182
remove, cool in their own liquor. Detach clams from shells, put
through food chopper and add strained liquor. Add water,
chopped celery and parsley and cook ten minutes. Press through
a sieve and add to the white sauce. Season, beat with an egg-
beater, and serve.
BISQUE OF LOBSTER
1 medium-sized lobster
1 cup cold water
1 quart milk
Red pepper
4 tablespoons butter
Salt and pepper
4 tablespoons flour
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Re-
move meat from freshly boiled lobster. Reserve the coral and
the green fat. Put the cold water into a kettle and add the
broken claws and shell and the finely chopped tail meat. Bring
to the simmering-point and simmer for twenty minutes. Drain,
and stir into the white sauce. Add the remainder of the lobster
meat, cut in dice. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just
before serving, add the coral mashed to a paste with the green
fat. Mix thoroughly, reheat, and serve with croutons.
BISQUE OF OYSTERS
1 pint oysters
1 slice onion, chopped fine
2 cups milk
1 stalk celery, diced
1 cup stale bread-crumbs
1 stalk parsley, chopped fine
1 tablespoon flour
1 bay-leaf
1 tablespoon butter
Salt and pepper
2 cups water
Scald the milk, add the bread-crumbs and cook in a double
boiler for twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve. Make a
white sauce of the milk and crumb mixture and the flour and
butter. Chop the oysters, put them in a saucepan with their
own liquor, the water and the chopped vegetables and herbs.
Simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Rub through a fine
sieve and combine with the white sauce mixture. More milk
or cream may be added if the bisque is very thick. Season and
serve.
SOUPS
183
MOCK BISQUE OR TOMATO BISQUE SOUP
2 cups raw or canned toma-
Bit of bay-leaf
toes
3/4 cup stale bread crumbs
2 teaspoons sugar
4 cups milk
1/3 teaspoon soda
1/2 tablespoon salt
1/2 onion stuck with 6 cloves
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Sprig of parsley
1/3 cup butter
Soald milk with bread crumbs, onion, parsley, and bay leaf.
Remove seasonings and rub through a sieve. Cook tomatoes
with sugar fifteen minutes, add soda and rub through a sieve.
Reheat bread and milk to boiling-point, add tomatoes, and pour
at once into tureen over butter, salt, and pepper. Serve with
croutons or crisp crackers.
Chowders
CLAM CHOWDER
50 clams
1/2 teaspoon thyme
4 ounces salt pork
3 potatoes
1 medium-sized onion
1 pint milk
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 pilot biscuit
Put clams, with their own liquor, into a granite-ware sauce-
pan, and when they have come to a boil skim out the clams and
return liquid to the fire. Cut the salt pork into thin slices,
chop the onion, and sauté the two together until brown. Stir
in flour, and when mixture is bubbling slowly, add the clam
liquor. Season with salt, white pepper, and thyme. Add po-
tatoes which have been cut into small cubes, and cook this
mixture until the potatoes are tender. Just before serving, add
milk, clams cut into pieces, and three large pilot biscuit or a
larger number of hard water-crackers, as preferred. If liked
thicker, blend one tablespoon of butter or other fat with the
same of flour, and add gradually.
To make Rhode Island clam chowder, add tomatoes, either
canned or fresh.
184
CORN CHOWDER
2 slices fat salt pork
2 cups boiling water
1 onion
1 cup cooked corn, fresh
3 cups diced boiled potatoes
or canned
Salt and pepper
4 cups hot milk
Cut the pork into small pieces and try it out. In this cook
the sliced onion. Strain the fat into another receptacle, and put
the potatoes into the strained fat. Add boiling water, corn
which has been cooked till tender, and hot milk. Season with
salt and white pepper, bring to the boiling-point, and serve with
a cracker on each soup-plate.
FISH CHOWDER
1/4 pound fat salt pork, sliced
3 cups boiling water
2 cups raw fish, cut in dice
1 pint milk
6 small potatoes, sliced
3 pilot biscuit
2 onions, chopped fine
Fry salt pork in a deep kettle. When crisp remove pieces of
pork and put fish, potatoes and onions in kettle. Cover with
the boiling water. Simmer one-half hour, or until the potato
is tender. Add the milk and cook five minutes longer. Season
with salt and pepper. Just before serving, add the pilot biscuit.
OYSTER CHOWDER
1 quart oysters
2 tablespoons butter or
6 potatoes
other fat
1 onion
1 tablespoon flour
1 cup water
Salt and pepper
3 cups milk
3 pilot biscuit
Drain the oysters, and remove any particles of shell. Strain
the liquor through a fine wire sieve. Slice the potatoes and
onion thin and boil them in the oyster liquor and water until
tender but not mushy. Make a white sauce with the fat, flour,
and milk, put the oysters into it, and cook two minutes. Com-
bine white sauce with potatoes and onion and the liquor in
which they have been cooked. Season to taste with salt and
pepper. Place the pilot biscuit in the hot tureen. Pour the
chowder over them, and serve.
282
STEAMED WHOLE SPRING CHICKEN
1 chicken
Salt and pepper
1 cup oysters
1/2 cup cream or milk
1 tablespoon fat
3 hard-cooked eggs
1 tablespoon flour
Minced herbs
Prepare a full-grown Spring chicken as for roasting, season
inside and out with salt and pepper, stuff with whole, raw
oysters and place it in a steamer with a close-fitting cover, and
steam until the chicken is done, then place the chicken on a
warm dish and make a gravy as follows: Put the fat into
a
saucepan with the minced herbs and flour and stir until the
mixture bubbles; add the liquor in the kettle below the steamer,
the cream or milk, and cook, stirring constantly, until the mix-
ture boils. Add the eggs, chopped fine, let the whole boil, pour
it over the chicken and serve at once.
CHICKEN POT-PIE
1 chicken
1 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons flour
1 cup milk
Salt and pepper
Clean, singe and cut up the chicken, place it in a pot and
nearly cover with water. Cover the pot and simmer gently.
An old fowl will require at least three or four hours' slow cook-
ing, but a year-old chicken should be done in one and one-
half hours. Remove the cover during the last half-hour of
cooking, to reduce the gravy to about one and one-half pints
when done.
Three-fourths of an hour before time to serve, make Dump-
lings No. 2 (see Index). When the dumplings are ready to
serve, add salt and pepper to the chicken and make the gravy
by adding to the liquor in the kettle three tablespoons of flour
stirred to a paste in one cup of milk. Skim out the chicken,
lay it on a platter, place the dumplings on the top and pour
over them the gravy.*
PRESSED CHICKEN
1 chicken
1 tablespoon gelatin to each
Salt and pepper
pint broth
Clean, singe and cut up a chicken. Place it in a kettle with
a little water, cover closely and simmer until the meat will fall
POULTRY AND GAME
283
from the bones. Lift the pieces from the kettle with a skimmer
and scrape all the meat from the bones, separating the white
meat from the dark and taking out the pieces of skin. Season
with salt and pepper.
Soften gelatin in two tablespoons of water for each tablespoon
of gelatin and add to the boiling chicken broth. Place the meat
in the dish it is to be pressed in, laying the white and dark in
alternate layers, and adding from time to time a little of the
broth to moisten all well. When all the meat is in the dish,
pour over it enough of the broth to cover it; lay a plate on top
of it; place a heavy weight upon the plate and set away in a
cool place. This makes an attractive dish for luncheon, sliced
and garnished with parsley.
WHITE
FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN
1 chicken
1 egg-yolk
2 tablespoons fat
Salt and pepper
2 cups chicken stock
Herbs
2 tablespoons flour
Salt pork
1 cup milk or cream
Rice or dumplings
Singe, clean and cup up the chicken. Brown in a pan with
the fat. Cover with boiling water, add salt, pepper, herbs and
a few slices of salt pork. Simmer until tender (about an hour),
strain and thicken one pint of the liquor with the flour mixed
to a smooth paste with a little cold water; add the milk or
cream beaten with the yolk of the egg. Heat again until
slightly thickened, pour over the chicken and serve with rice
or dumplings (see Index for recipe).
BROWN
1 chicken
Salt and pepper
2 or 3 small slices salt pork
1
teaspoon onion-juice, if
2 tablespoons flour
desired
1 pint boiling water
Cut in pieces as directed for white fricassee. Place salt pork
in a frying-pan, and when hot put in the chicken, leaving
plenty of room to turn the meat; cook until each piece is a
rich brown. Remove the chicken and keep it warm. Add the
flour to the fat in the pan, stir well and when it has cooked two
minutes, add the boiling water. When the gravy is smooth
and boiling, replace the chicken, season with salt and pepper,
284
cover the pan, and simmer gently until the chicken is tender,
then add a teaspoon of onion-juice, if desired, and serve at
once. The gravy will be thick enough, and if the pan has a
tight cover, it will not be diminished, even after long cooking.
CHICKEN PIE
1 chicken
Salt and pepper
Pie paste
Flour
Milk
Clean, singe and cut up chicken as for fricassee. Place in a
kettle and add enough hot water to cover. Put the cover on
the kettle, and simmer slowly until the chicken is tender, add-
ing a little more water if needed. Make a gravy of the stock,
using two tablespoons flour for each cup of stock. Use for the
crust puff paste, or a good pie paste, rolled a little thicker
than for fruit pies. Line the sides of a deep baking-dish with
crust; invert in the middle of the dish a small cup or ramekin;
put in part of the chicken and season with salt and pepper,
then add the rest of the chicken, and season the same way.
Put in the dish two cups or more of the gravy made from
broth in which the chicken was cooked and cover the top with
crust. The cup or ramekin will hold the crust up and will pre-
vent evaporation. Most chicken pie is too dry; therefore, use
a generous amount of the broth. Bake in a hot oven (450° F.)
until crust is done (one-half hour). When serving, after cut-
ting the first slice, carefully slip the knife under the ramekin
and release the gravy which is held there by suction. Additional
gravy should be served in a gravy-dish.
CURRY OF CHICKEN
1 chicken (1 1/2 or 2 pounds)
2 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon to 2 tablespoons
2 onions
curry-powder
1 egg-yolk
1 tablespoon flour
Cut up the chicken as for fricassee, put in a saucepan with
sufficient water to cover it, and simmer until tender, keeping
the pan closely covered. Remove from the fire, take the chicken
out and pour the liquor into a bowl. Put the onions into the
saucepan with the fat and sauté until brown, then skim them
out and put in the chicken; fry for three or four minutes, then
POULTRY AND GAME
285
sprinkle over it the curry-powder. Next pour in the chicken
liquor, stew five minutes longer and stir in the flour mixed
until smooth with a little cold water. Stir the mixture until
it thickens; add the beaten yolk of egg, adding a little of the
hot mixture to the egg first. Serve with a border of hot boiled
rice.
SAVORY CHICKEN
1/4 cup fat
1 1/2 cups strained tomatoes
1 tablespoon chopped onion
Salt, pepper and paprika
1 chopped carrot
1 chicken
1 slice turnip
Salt-pork fat
1/4 cup flour
1 cup button mushrooms
1 cup water
2 tablespoons chopped olives
Make a savory sauce by melting the fat and cooking in it
chopped onion, carrot and turnip cut in small pieces. Stir in
flour and add gradually boiling water and tomato, previously
stewed and strained. Season with salt, pepper and paprika.
Cut up a chicken, dredge with flour, and sauté in salt-pork
fat. Remove from the pan, place in a saucepan and cover
with the savory sauce. Cook until the chicken is tender. At
the last moment, add the mushrooms and chopped olives. Ar-
range the pieces of chicken in the center of the platter and pour
the sauce around them, garnishing with triangles of toast and
stuffed olives.
SCALLOPED CHICKEN
2 cups cooked chicken meat
2 tablespoons flour
1 pint broth in which chicken
Salt and pepper
was cooked
Bread-crumbs
Fat
2 cups sliced, cooked potatoes
Cut the cooked chicken meat into dice. Thicken the broth
with a paste made of the flour and two tablespoons of fat and
season with salt and pepper. Fill a pudding-dish with alternate
layers of bread-crumbs, chicken and potatoes. Cover the top
with crumbs. Pour in the gravy and add a few bits of butter
or other fat and bake fifteen to thirty minutes in a moderate
oven (350°-400° F.).
286
CREAMED CHICKEN
2 cups cooked chicken
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons fat
1 tablespoon parsley
2 tablespoons flour
1 egg-yolk
1 cup milk or cream
Make a white sauce of the fat, flour and milk. Season with
salt and pepper. Add the parsley and chicken and cook until
the sauce is thoroughly hot again. Beat the egg-yolk, adding
two tablespoons of milk, and pour into the mixture. Cook
two minutes, stirring constantly, and serve in a border of riced
potatoes or in croustades.
Creamed chicken may be varied in a number of ways: by
substituting mushrooms or chopped cooked eggs for part of
the chicken or by adding chopped pimientos and olives.
Capons
Capons are large, plump young roosters, especially fattened
for the table. They are prepared for cooking in the same way
as chickens. For stuffing, choose a delicate flavoring such as
oysters or chestnuts. Mushrooms or truffles are especially good
with capon.
Turkeys
ROAST TURKEY
Dress as directed for roast chicken and roast in an uncovered
roaster in a slow oven (300° F.) allowing 15 to 25 minutes per
pound, depending upon age and size of bird. The larger birds
require less time per pound than the small birds. Baste the bird
at half hour intervals. Serve with giblet gravy.
BRAISED TURKEY
1 turkey
1/2 cup onion
Stuffing
1/2 cup turnip
1/2 pound salt pork
4 cups water or stock
1/2 cup chopped celery
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup chopped carrots
This is a very satisfactory way of cooking an old turkey that
is unfit for roasting. Stuff the body and breast with any de-
POULTRY AND GAME
287
sired stuffing, and truss. Spread thin slices of salt pork over
the breast and legs, and cover the turkey with a strong sheet
of oiled paper, fastening the paper on by passing a string
around the body. In a double roasting-pan large enough to
hold the turkey, spread sliced salt pork and the chopped vege-
tables. Lay the turkey on this mixture, with the breast up,
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover the pan tightly, and place
in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.). Allow twenty-five min-
utes for each pound.
At the end of thirty minutes, add water or stock. During
the last half-hour take the cover from the pan, remove the paper
and pork from the turkey. This permits the meat to brown
lightly. Serve with mushroom sauce, or with the gravy in the
pan, strained and thickened.
FILLETS OF TURKEY WITH RICE
Breast fillets
1/2 teaspoon onion-juice
Egg and crumbs
Salt and pepper
1 cup white stock
2 teaspoons butter
1 cup rice
1 tablespoon grated cheese
6 tablespoons oil
Skin the breast of a plump turkey, and slice. The slices
should be nearly half an inch thick, and as nearly uniform in
size as possible. Dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs, again in the
egg, and once more in the crumbs. Set in the refrigerator. Put
the white stock into a saucepan; add rice, onion-juice and
one-half teaspoon salt; and simmer slowly until the liquid is
absorbed.
When the rice is tender, add butter and grated cheese, and
season with salt and pepper. Cover and let it stand at the
side of the fire until the fillets are ready. Heat salad-oil or
cooking fat slowly in a frying-pan to 375°-390° F., and cook
the fillets to a nice brown. Mound the rice in the center of a
hot dish and arrange the fillets about it.
BROILED YOUNG TURKEY
Young turkeys may be broiled or panned, like chickens. A
young turkey is easily distinguished by its smooth, black legs
and white skin.
288
TURKEY CURRY
6 tablespoons fat
3 tablespoons flour
1/3 cup onion, finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 large apple, peeled, diced
1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons curry
1 large can mushrooms or
powder
1 pound fresh mushrooms
1 1/2 cups turkey stock and top
3 cups turkey, diced
milk, or cream
Cook onion, apple, mushrooms, and turkey in the fat until
onion and apple begin to be transparent: 10 to 15 minutes. If
fresh mushrooms are used, sauté several minutes before adding
to other ingredients. Remove from heat, add salt, flour, and
curry powder and stir thoroughly. Add liquid, and cook until
thickened throughout. Set over hot water, cover and cook 15
minutes longer to blend the flavors. Taste and add more
seasoning if desired. Serve with hot boiled rice. Little or no
salt is added in cooking rice.
Goose
ROAST GOOSE WITH POTATO STUFFING
1 goose (about 8 pounds)
Salt and pepper
Potato stuffing
Flour
Salt pork if goose is not fat
Select a goose that is about four months old. An old goose
is better braised than roasted. Singe the goose, wash it carefully
in hot water, and wipe it dry on the outside; then draw it and
clean it thoroughly inside. Flatten the breast-bone by striking
it with a rolling-pin. Partly fill the cavity with potato stuf-
fing, stitch up the openings and truss the goose. If it is not
fat, lay thin slices of pork upon the breast, but if the goose has
considerable fat, omit the pork. Bake in a hot oven (500° F.)
for forty-five minutes. Remove it from the oven, pour out
all the fat, sprinkle the bird all over with salt and pepper,
dredge with flour, and return it to the oven. Reduce the heat
but do not let it get below 350° F.
When the flour is a good brown, pour one cup of hot water
into the pan and baste the goose often, dredging it each time
POULTRY AND GAME
289
with a slight sifting of flour to absorb the fat. Allow twenty
minutes to the pound for a young goose and twenty-five for
one that is old. Remove the goose from the pan, add a cup
of hot water to the gravy and thicken it, if necessary, with
browned flour. Garnish the goose with parsley and serve with
giblet gravy.
Apple sauce is often served with roast goose.
Goslings may be roasted in the same way, allowing, however,
only fifteen minutes to the pound for cooking.
ROAST GOOSE WITH BAKED APPLE
1 eight-pound goose
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups bread-crumbs
Pinch of pepper
1 chopped onion
6 to 8 apples
2 tablespoons fat
1/4 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon sage
3 sweet potatoes
Cook the giblets until tender, chop and add to stuffing made
by mixing bread-crumbs, onion, fat, sage, salt and pepper.
After cleaning and washing the goose thoroughly, stuff, and sew
the neck and back. Roast for fifteen minutes at 500° F., then
reduce the heat to 350° F. and cook about three hours. Wash
and core six to eight apples; sprinkle with brown sugar, stuff
with mashed and seasoned sweet potato; bake until tender and
serve hot with the goose.
DEVILED GOOSE
1 goose
1 teaspoon pepper
Potato stuffing
2 tablespoons made mustard
1/4 cup vinegar
1 tablespoon salt
After cleaning the goose and wiping it well with a damp
cloth, plunge it into a kettle of boiling water, and simmer for
one hour. Take it from the kettle, drain well, and wipe it dry.
Partly fill the body and neck with potato stuffing, sew up and
truss, and roast in a moderately hot oven (350°-400° F.), al-
lowing fifteen to twenty minutes to the pound. Pour over it
a mixture of the vinegar, pepper, and made mustard, and baste
frequently. Serve with giblet gravy.
An old goose that can not be made eatable in any other way
may be cooked in this way, two hours instead of one hour
being allowed for the simmering.
310
BÉCHAMEL SAUCE
No. 1.
Use one-half cup of meat stock instead of half of the milk
in medium or thin white sauce. If an acid flavor is desired, add
one teaspoon of lemon juice to each cup of sauce.
No. 2.
1 small onion
1/4 cup chopped lean raw ham
2 tablespoons fat
4 tablespoons flour
1 pint milk
Slice the onion, place the fat in a saucepan and slightly brown
the onion and ham in it. Add the flour and, when well mixed,
the milk. Stir until it boils, then cook over hot water for ten
minutes or longer. Add seasonings, strain and use.
CHAUD-FROID SAUCE
WHITE-Soak one tablespoon gelatin in cold water and add
to one cup of hot velouté sauce. Mix well; strain, if necessary;
let cool and use to coat cold meats.
BROWN- Use a brown roux and brown stock in making the
velouté.
YELLOW-Add the beaten yolks of two eggs to white chaud-
froid sauce just before removing from the fire.
PINEAPPLE-ORANGE SAUCE
6 tablespoons sugar
1 cup orange juice
1/2 tablespoon cornstarch
Grated rind 1 orange
1 cup water
1/3 cup crushed pineapple
Combine ingredients in the order listed. Heat to boiling and
cook for 3 minutes. Serve with ham or tongue.
Brown sugar may be used in place of granulated.
Add 1/4 cup raisins and cook until they puff.
POULETTE SAUCE
1 cup velouté sauce
2 egg yolks
1 cup cream
Slowly add, with constant stirring, the velouté to the egg
yolks, beat in the cream and reheat over hot water. Beat well
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
3II
and serve at once. It is improved by adding, a little at a time,
one tablespoon butter, the juice of half a lemon, a tablespoon
of chopped parsley and a dash of nutmeg.
BUTTER SAUCE À LA CREOLE
1 cup cold water
1/2 tablespoon flour
4 1/2 tablespoons butter
Juice of 1 lemon
Make a sauce of one-half cup cold water, one-half tablespoon
butter and the flour. When the mixture boils, stir in quickly
four tablespoons butter and add, by degrees, another one-half
cup of cold water to keep the mixture from boiling. Stir in
the juice of a lemon and strain. It must be served at once and
hot. It becomes oily if kept long. One tablespoon of chopped
parsley may be added.
DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE
1/3 cup butter
1 pint boiling water
4 tablespoons flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
Make a roux of four tablespoons of the butter and all of the
flour. Gradually add the boiling water, stirring constantly
over hot water, until the sauce comes to the boiling-point.
Simmer until it is thick and smooth. When ready to serve, add
salt and the remaining butter in small bits, beating constantly.
MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE
2 cups drawn-butter sauce
2 egg-yolks
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
Add the lemon-juice and chopped parsley to the drawn-but-
ter sauce. Let it cool slightly, add the beaten yolks and season
with salt and pepper. Do not permit the sauce to boil after
the addition of the egg-yolk.
CAPER SAUCE
Follow the recipe for maître d'hôtel sauce, omitting the
parsley and adding three tablespoons capers. This is excellent
with fish.
(For another recipe for caper sauce, see Variations of White Sauce, page 309.)
312
IMITATION CAPER SAUCE
1/2 cup chopped pickles
2 cups drawn butter sauce
To the drawn butter sauce add pickles, cut into tiny cubes
of a uniform size and well drained. Boil for one minute. Serve
with fish or chops.
HOLLANDAISE SAUCE
2 egg yolks
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup butter
Dash cayenne
1 tablespoon lemon juice
Place egg yolks with 1/3 of the butter in top of a double boiler.
Keep water in bottom of boiler hot but not boiling. Stir eggs
and butter constantly; when butter melts add another portion
and as it melts and the mixture begins to thicken add remaining
butter. Keep stirring all the time. As soon as mixture is thick,
remove from heat and add seasonings. The sauce is delicious
served over vegetables. Should sauce separate, beat in 2 table-
spoons boiling water, drop by drop. Makes 1 cup sauce.
Increase lemon juice to 1 1/2 tablespoons.
WITH WATER-Cream butter, add egg yolks 1 at a time,
blending each one in thoroughly. Add remaining ingredients
and beat. Just before serving add 1/2 cup boiling water grad-
ually, beating constantly. Cook over hot water, stirring con-
stantly until thickened. Serve at once.
WITH ANCHOVY-Season sauce with anchovy paste.
WITH SHERRY-Just before serving sauce, add 2 tablespoons
sherry, drop by drop, beating constantly.
BÉARNAISE SAUCE
4 tablespoons fat
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
Yolks 4 eggs
1 teaspoon onion juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon chopped tarragon
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
Stir the fat until perfectly soft and creamy. Place the egg
yolks and the salt and pepper in the top of a double boiler and
beat light with an egg beater, then add one-third of the fat and
beat until smooth, add another third and beat again, and then
add the remainder and beat until all is perfectly smooth. Add
the vinegar and onion juice and beat again. Place over boiling
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
313
water and cook for three minutes, beating constantly with the
egg-beater. Remove from the fire, put in the chopped parsley
and tarragon and use immediately.
VICTOR HUGO SAUCE
1/2 teaspoon fine chopped
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
shallot
1 teaspoon meat extract or
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
one meat cube
1/3 cup butter, washed (p. 591)
1 tablespoon grated horse-
Yolks of two eggs
radish
Cook the shallot in the vinegar for five minutes. Wash the
butter and divide. it into thirds. Add one of the thirds to the
vinegar, with the egg-yolks, lemon-juice and meat extract.
Cook over hot water, stirring constantly. As soon as the butter
is melted, add the second piece, and then the third piece.
When the sauce thickens, add the grated horseradish.
GIBLET GRAVY
Giblets and neck of fowl
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons chicken fat
Salt and pepper
Place the giblets (liver, heart and gizzard) and the neck in
a saucepan and cover them with cold water. Simmer slowly
and when they are tender remove the flesh from the neck and
chop it fine with the giblets. Save the stock in which the giblets
and neck were cooked. Heat the fat in a small saucepan on
top of the stove and when it is hot stir in the flour. Cook two
minutes, then add one cup of the stock pouring it in gradually
so that it will not thin the gravy too much. If the gravy seems
too thick, add a little hot water. Last, put in the chopped
giblets and season to taste with salt and pepper.
BREAD SAUCE
1 cup stale bread-crumbs
1 onion
2 cups milk
3 tablespoons butter
Salt
Pepper
This sauce is generally served with small birds. It may be
served with roast chicken or duck. The crumbs must be entirely
white. Sift them through a coarse sieve, place the ones that
pass through in the milk, add the onion and place in a stew-
314
pan on the fire to cook. Cook for twelve minutes, remove the
onion and add one tablespoon of butter with salt and pepper
to taste.
BROWNED CRUMBS-Place the remaining butter on the fire
in a frying-pan, add the coarse bread-crumbs and fry them
until brown, being careful to have the fat very hot before
putting in the crumbs. Stir vigorously for two or three min-
utes, but do not allow the crumbs to burn. Serve the sauce in
a gravy-dish and sprinkle with the browned crumbs.
No. 1.
BROWN SAUCE
1 tablespoon chopped onion
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons fat
1 cup brown meat stock
Pepper
Salt
Brown the onion and fat. Add the flour and make a brown
roux (See Index). Pour in the brown stock and cook with
constant stirring until the sauce thickens. Strain to remove
the particles of onion, and season with pepper and salt. If the
roux was not sufficiently brown to make the sauce a desirable
color, a few drops of vegetable flavoring or of Worcestershire
sauce may be added. If a more highly flavored sauce is desired,
add a slice of carrot, a sprig of parsley, a little thyme and a few
peppercorns to the onion, and brown in the fat.
No. 2-In making brown sauce for a roast, the simplest way
is to use the fat and juice of the roast. Add two tablespoons
of flour to two tablespoons of the hot drippings, stir and cook
well. Then add one cup of boiling water, stir well to avoid
lumps, and season to taste with salt and pepper. If liked, add
a tablespoon or two of catchup or a flavoring of Worcester-
shire or other sauce.
MADE GRAVY
2 small onions
Butter or other fat
1 carrot
Flour
Small piece of lean beef, size
Pepper
of egg, or 1 beef cube or
Salt
1 teaspoon beef extract
Catchup
Cut up onions and carrot, place them with the lean beef or
extract in a stew-pan with the fat and brown all together. Add
enough water to cover the mixture and stir slowly until the
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
315
vegetables are cooked. Strain, thicken with flour, using two
tablespoons to each cup of liquid, and add pepper, salt and
catchup. Color brown with caramel or vegetable flavoring if
necessary.
CURRANT JELLY SAUCE
1 onion
1 stalk celery
1 tablespoon fat
1 bay-leaf
1 tablespoon flour
2 tablespoons vinegar
1/2 cup currant jelly
2 cups stock
Slice the onion and cook in the fat till it begins to color,
the, add the flour and herbs and stir until brown. Add the
vinegar and the stock and simmer twenty minutes. Strain,
skim off all the fat, put in the jelly and stir until it is melted.
This sauce is used with game.
MUSHROOM SAUCE
4 tablespoons fat
1 cup mushrooms, fresh or
4 tablespoons flour
canned
2 cups stock
Salt and pepper
Make a brown sauce of the fat, flour and stock. Add one
cup mushrooms and cook until hot. If mushrooms are over-
cooked they will become tough. Three or four minutes is
sufficient for those that have been canned and five or six min-
utes for fresh ones.
This sauce is used with any kind of roasted, broiled or braised
meat, particularly with beef.
ONION SAUCE
1/2 cup minced onion
1 1/2 cups beef stock
3 tablespoons fat
1 tablespoon minced parsley
3 tablespoons flour
Cook the onion with the fat until slightly browned. Stir in
the flour, then add the stock and parsley, stirring constantly.
Serve with beef.
316
SAUCE PIQUANTE
2 tablespoons butter or other
2 cloves
fat
1 clove garlic
2 onions
2 tablespoons flour
2 carrots
1 cup beef or veal stock
2 shallots
1/2 cup vinegar
Thyme
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon minced parsley
Melt fat, slice into it onions, carrots and shallots. Add a little
thyme, minced parsley, cloves and clove of garlic. Let this
mixture cook until the carrot is soft, then add flour. Let it
cook for five minutes more, and add beef or veal stock and
vinegar, skim, and strain through a sieve. Add salt and pepper
when boiling.
SAUCE ROBERT
6 onions
1 tablespoon mushroom
2 tablespoons fat
catchup
2 tablespoons flour
Salt and pepper
1 cup stock
Mustard
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Slice onions and sauté them in the fat in a small saucepan
until they are well browned; then add the flour, mushroom
catchup, stock, salt, pepper and mustard to taste and the lemon-
juice. This sauce may be served with both cold and hot meats.
CURRY SAUCE
1 tablespoon fat
1 pint stock, milk or water
2 teaspoons chopped onion
1 tablespoon flour
1 teaspoon curry-powder
Salt and pepper
This sauce is used as a basis for many dishes. Cold meat or
fish, oysters, hard-cooked eggs, canned or left over salmon, lob-
ster, and shrimps, all may be heated in this sauce and a great
variety of dishes is thus made possible. Have the fat hot and
sauté in it the chopped onion until a delicate brown, then add
the curry-powder and stock or water. Simmer for ten minutes
and then stir in the flour that has been rubbed smooth in a
tablespoon of cold water. Allow it to boil for a minute or two,
stirring constantly. Strain and it is ready for use.
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
317
SAUCE SUPREME
2 tablespoons fat
2 tablespoons lemon-juice
2 tablespoons flour
2 teaspoons chopped parsley
1 cup chicken stock
Place the fat in a frying-pan, over the fire, and when it is
hot, add the flour. Stir well. When it is turning brown, add
the chicken stock and boil for several minutes, stirring con-
stantly. Then add the lemon-juice and the parsley. After
the sauce has boiled up once, it is ready to serve.
OLIVE SAUCE
2 dozen olives
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons salad oil
1 pint stock
1 slice onion
Salt and pepper
1 lemon
Place the olives in an earthenware bowl, cover with hot water
and let them remain for half an hour to draw out the brine.
Place the oil in a frying-pan, and add the onion; when this
commences to color, add the flour. Stir until smooth. After
it has cooked for two minutes, add the stock, and regulate the
heat so that the sauce will simmer gently. Pare the olives from
the stones, round and round as though paring an apple, leaving
the pulp in a single strip. If this is done carefully, the olives
will coil back into shape. Place them in the sauce, add the
seasoning and the juice of the lemon and simmer for twenty
minutes. Skim carefully and serve.
SPANISH SAUCE
1 tablespoon minced lean raw
2 tablespoons flour
ham
1/2 cup stock
1 tablespoon chopped celery'
1/2 cup tomato-juice
1 tablespoon chopped carrot
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1/8 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons fat
Melt the fat. Add the ham and vegetables and cook until
they are brown. Make a sauce of this mixture and the flour,
salt, pepper and liquid.
318
CHATEAUBRIAND SAUCE
3 tablespoons fat
Pepper
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 teaspoon minced parsley
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups Spanish sauce
Whip together the fat, lemon-juice, salt, a pinch of pepper
and minced parsley. Add the Spanish sauce, reheat, stir for
a moment and serve.
TOMATO SAUCE
1 quart fresh or canned
3 tablespoons fat
tomatoes
3 tablespoons flour
1 slice onion
Salt and pepper
8 cloves
Set the tomatoes, onion and cloves on the fire and cook for
twenty minutes. Brown the fat in the frying-pan, add the
flour, and cook until smooth and brown, stirring constantly.
Add the tomatoes, cook for three minutes, season with salt and
pepper and pass through a strainer fine enough to hold back
the seeds. This makes a very thin sauce. Use more flour if
you prefer a thick sauce.
TOMATO AND MUSHROOM SAUCE
2 slices bacon or small quan-
2 cloves
tity uncooked ham
1/2 teaspoon peppercorns
1 slice onion
Few gratings nutmeg
6 slices carrot
1/2 No. 2 can tomatoes
Bay-leaf
5 tablespoons flour
2 sprigs thyme
1 1/2 cups brown stock
Sprig parsley
Salt and pepper
1/2 No. 1 can mushrooms
Chop the bacon or ham, and cook with onion and carrot
for five minutes. Add bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, cloves, pepper-
corns, nutmeg, and tomatoes, and cook five minutes. Mix the
flour with five tablespoons of cold water and rub out all the
lumps; then add enough water so that the batter can be poured
in a thin stream. Add to the sauce, stirring constantly. As
the sauce thickens, dilute it with the stock. Cover, set in the
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
319
oven (300° F.) and cook one hour. Strain, add salt and
pepper to taste and the mushrooms, drained and cut in quarters.
Then cook two minutes over direct heat.
RAVIGOTE SAUCE
1 cup thin white sauce
1 tablespoon minced chervil
1/4 cup lemon-juice
1 tablespoon minced tarragon
1 tablespoon tarragon vine-
leaves
gar
1 tablespoon minced chives
1 tablespoon minced shallot
1 tablespoon butter
While sauce is hot, add other materials, except butter. Keep
hot five minutes, strain, beat in butter. Serve hot or cold.
BROWNED BUTTER
Place a piece of butter in a hot frying-pan and toss about
until it browns. Stir browned flour into it until it is smooth
and commences to boil. This is used for coloring gravies,
sauces, etc.
BROWNED FLOUR
Spread flour on a pie-tin and place on the stove or in a very
hot oven (450°-500° F.). When it begins to color, stir con-
stantly until it is evenly browned throughout. When cold,
cork closely in jars.
GLAZING FOR MEAT
No. 1--Boil one quart of consommé until it is reduced to one
cup. For half-glaze, reduce it to one pint.
No. 2-Simmer a small amount of jellied stock with burnt
sugar until it becomes like a sirup.
No. -To one cup brown stock, add one-half tablespoon
gelatin soaked in four tablespoons water. The glaze should be
melted over hot water and applied to meat, fish, game or
poultry.
ENTREES AND MADE-OVER DISHES
337
EGG CROQUETTES
2 cups chopped, hard-cooked
1/8 teaspoon pepper
eggs
Dash of cayenne
1 cup thick white sauce
Egg and crumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
Chop the eggs fine, moisten with sauce as soft as can
be
handled, and season. Let chill thoroughly on flat dish, well
greased, then divide evenly into portions, allowing two table-
spoons for each croquette. Shape into any desired form. Roll
in crumbs, dip in egg, again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat
(375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes. Drain on soft
paper. Serve with a sauce.
FISH CROQUETTES
2 cups cooked fish
Egg and crumbs
1/2 cup drawn-butter sauce
Mince fish. Season to taste and moisten with drawn-butter
sauce. Spread upon a greased platter, and when stiff mold
into cutlets. Roll in fine crumbs, then in egg, and again in
crumbs, leave in the refrigerator until firm, and fry in deep fat
(375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes.
HAM CROQUETTES
2 cups mashed potatoes
Cayenne
1 tablespoon fat
1 cup cooked ham
3 egg-yolks
Egg and crumbs
Mix potato, fat, yolks of two eggs and cayenne, beat until
smooth, then set to cool. Chop the ham, mix with the other
yolk, cook until the mixture thickens, and turn out to cool.
When thoroughly cool, take a tablespoon of the potato mix-
ture, make a hole in it, put a large teaspoon of the chopped
ham inside, close the hole and form a ball. Dip into flour,
then into egg, roll in crumbs, and fry in deep fat (375°-390°
F.) from two to five minutes.
338
LOBSTER CROQUETTES
2 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
1/3 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon mustard
1 cup milk
Egg and crumbs
2 cups cooked lobster meat
Make a white sauce, using the fat, flour and milk. Add
chopped lobster meat, which has been seasoned with lemon-
juice and mustard. Cool, shape, dip in flour, then in egg; roll
in crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five
minutes. Serve with tomato cream sauce.
OYSTER CROQUETTES
1 pint oysters
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon parsley
2 tablespoons flour
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 egg-yolk
Egg and crumbs
Clean the oysters (see Index). Heat in their own liquor
until the edges begin to curl, stirring all the time. Strain the
liquor and chop the oysters. Rub together fat and flour. Add
the oyster liquor and cook until thick. Then add the chopped
oysters and the well-beaten egg-yolk. After taking from the
fire, add salt, minced parsley and the lemon-juice. When stiff,
mold into desired shape. Dip in crumbs, beaten egg and crumbs
again, then fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five
minutes. Serve with horseradish sauce.
No. 1.
SALMON CROQUETTES
1 3/4 cups cooked salmon, fresh
Salt and pepper
or canned
Cayenne
2 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
1/3 cup flour
Egg and crumbs
1 cup milk
Make a white sauce with the fat, flour and milk. Add salt,
a little white pepper, and a few grains of cayenne. To this
cream foundation add cold flaked salmon and lemon-juice.
Spread on a plate to cool. Shape; roll in fine crumbs, then in
egg and again in crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.)
from two to five minutes.
ENTREES AND MADE-OVER DISHES
339
No. 2.
1 cup hot mashed potatoes
Salt and pepper
1 cup flaked salmon
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
Eggs and crumbs
Add potato to salmon. Season with salt, pepper and lemon-
juice. Shape into cutlets, egg and crumb and fry in deep fat
(375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes.
SHAD ROE CROQUETTES
2 shad roe
1 tablespoon nutmeg, grated
1 tablespoon salt
Pepper
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon finely chopped
2 tablespoons flour
parsley
1 cup milk or cream
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
2 egg-yolks
Egg and crumbs
Wash the shad roe. Put them on the stove in a saucepan of
boiling water; add the salt, cover and simmer slowly a few
minutes; then remove the skin and mash them. Make a white
sauce with the fat, flour and milk, add egg-yolks, remove from
the stove, and add the seasonings and mashed roe. Mix
thoroughly and turn into a dish to cool. When cold form into
croquettes. Roll in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg, again in
bread-crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to
five minutes.
SURPRISE CROQUETTES
2 cups mashed potatoes
Salt and pepper
4 tablespoons cream
Cooked meat, cheese or vege-
1 teaspoon onion-juice
table
2 egg-yolks
Crumbs and flour
1 egg-white
To the mashed potato add cream or rich milk, onion-juice
and salt and pepper to taste. Beat over the fire until smooth
and hot. Remove, slightly cool, and add the beaten egg-yolks.
Form into cylinders, or cone shapes; make a depression in each,
and into this put a teaspoon of creamed chicken, minced highly
seasoned meat, grated cheese, or a vegetable in cream sauce.
Press the potato around the filling. Beat the egg-white slightly,
dilute with a tablespoon of water, roll the croquettes in flour,
340
then in the beaten egg-white, and then in seasoned bread-
crumbs, and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five
minutes.
SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES
2 pairs sweetbreads
2 tablespoons fat
1/4 cup mushrooms
4 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 cup milk or cream
1/2 teaspoon parsley
2 eggs
Salt and pepper
Egg and crumbs
Prepare sweetbreads (see Index) Separate from mem-
branes, add chopped mushrooms and seasonings. Make a white
sauce with the fat, flour and milk or cream, add sweetbread
mixture and cook for three minutes. Remove from the fire
and add two eggs, well beaten. Beat slowly. Pour this mix-
ture on a platter and set it away to cool. Shape into cylinders,
roll in beaten egg, then in bread or cracker-crumbs, and fry in
hot fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes, using the
frying-basket. Serve with Béchamel sauce.
VEAL CROQUETTES
2 tablespoons butter or other
1 egg
fat
2 cups minced veal
3 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup chopped ham
1 cup milk
1/4 cup mushrooms, truffles
1 teaspoon onion-juice
or sweetbreads
Salt and pepper
Egg and crumbs
Paprika
Make a white sauce with the fat, flour and milk, and add
onion-juice, a little salt, pepper and paprika. Stir in the beaten
egg, cook one minute and remove from the fire. Add to this
the minced veal, the chopped ham and the chopped mushrooms,
sweetbread, or truffles. When the mixture is cold, form into
small cylinder or pyramid shapes, roll in flour, then in egg and
then in crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two
to five minutes.
ENTREES AND MADE-OVER DISHES
341
POTATO OR HOMINY CROQUETTES
4 cups mashed potatoes or
Onion-juice
cooked hominy
Nutmeg
2 tablespoons cream or milk
2 egg-yolks
Salt and pepper
Egg and crumbs
Chopped parsley
To the mashed hot potatoes or hominy, add cream or milk,
and seasonings. Mix well and beat until light, add the well-
beaten yolks of eggs and let stand till cold. Shape into oblong
or pear-shaped croquettes, roll in fine bread-crumbs, then in
beaten egg, and again in crumbs. Fry at once, until brown, in
hot fat (375°-390° F.).
Potato croquettes may be made more dainty by rubbing the
potato mixture through a sieve before adding the eggs. Short;
leafless stalks of parsley thrust into pear-shaped croquettes after
the manner of stems will make them very attractive.
RICE CROQUETTES
1 cup boiled rice
Grated lemon-peel
1/4 cup milk
1 egg
1 tablespoon sugar
Egg and crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
Combine rice, milk, sugar, salt, grated lemon-peel and the
well-beaten egg, and when cold, shape in ovals, roll in egg, then
in bread-crumbs or rolled crackers, and fry a rich brown in deep
fat (375°-390° F.).
RICE FAN-TAN
1/2 cup rice
1 egg
2 cups milk
1/2 cup candied fruits
1/2 teaspoon salt
Egg and crumbs
2 tablespoons sugar
Powdered sugar
Cook rice in milk until very soft. Stir in salt, sugar and
well-beaten egg, and remove at once from the fire. Mix in
cut up candied fruits-cherries, apricots, pineapple, etc.-and
turn into a shallow, well-oiled pan to cool. When firm, cut
into strips about one and one-half inches wide and three inches
long, dip into egg then into bread-crumbs and brown delicately
on both sides in butter or other fat. Drain, dust with powdered
sugar and serve hot.
VEGETARIAN DISHES
EGETARIAN dishes make agreeable variations in the diet,
and frequently reduce the food bill. They are welcome
in any household where the program of using meat only once
a day is being followed. Dishes containing a large percentage
of milk, eggs or cheese, together with dried legumes, nuts or
gelatin, are nutritious and typical vegetarian dishes.
People not accustomed to meatless menus may experience
an unsatisfied feeling at the end of a meal that is entirely
vegetarian. This is largely due to the fact that meat is a highly
flavored food. The housewife will do well, therefore, to offer
some well-seasoned dish in a vegetarian menu.
A ring mold is a decorative way of scrving vegetarian dishes
with no extra labor. The following recipes calling for a loaf
form may be used for the ring mold. See page 344.
CHESTNUT CROQUETTES
2 cups hot mashed chestnuts
Few drops of onion-juice or
4 tablespoons fat
2 tablespoons minced onion
2 eggs
Egg and crumbs
Salt and pepper
Mix the chestnuts, fat, slightly beaten eggs and seasonings.
Shape into croquettes. Roll in crumbs, then in beaten egg and
again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat F.) until
crumbs are brown (2-5 minutes).
This dish offers adequate protein and iron and a compara-
tively highly seasoned dish. The croquettes may be served
with brown sauce or tomato sauce.
PEANUT BALLS
1 tablespoon fat
Pepper
2 tablespoons flour
2 cups cooked rice
1/2 cup milk
1/4 cup ground peanuts
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
Make white sauce from fat, flour, milk and seasoning. Mix
rice, peanuts, white sauce and beaten egg, and shape into small
351
352
balls. Sauté in a greased frying-pan turning frequently so that
the balls are browned all over. Or, roll in beaten egg, then in
crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.). .
This dish is low in both iron and protein, therefore milk,
eggs or cheese should appear elsewhere in the menu. These
balls are good served with cheese sauce.
PEANUT SCRAPPLE
1 cup hot milk
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 quart boiling water
1/8 teaspoon paprika
1 cup yellow corn-meal
1 1/2 cups chopped peanuts
3/4 cup hominy grits
1/4 to 1 cup grated cheese
Combine hot milk and boiling water, bring to boiling-point
and add corn-meal, hominy grits and seasoning. Stir constantly
until the liquid is thickened by the cereal. Place in a double
boiler and cook one hour. Ten minutes before taking up, add
the peanuts and cheese.
Place in a deep rectangular bread-pan and allow it to cool.
When ready to use, cut in small slices (roll in egg and crumbs
if desired) and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) until brown
(2-5 minutes) ; or place in a greased baking-pan, sprinkle with
grated cheese mixed with bread-crumbs and bake in a moderate
oven (350°-400° F.) until brown.
This makes an excellent luncheon or supper dish.
PEANUT BUTTER CUTLETS
1 1/2 cups peanut butter
Pepper
1 1/2 cups hot milk
6 half-inch slices of bread
1 teaspoon salt
Mix peanut butter with hot milk and seasoning, mixing to-
gether thoroughly. Dip slices of bread into the peanut-butter
mixture. Sauté in hot fat. Garnish with pickles and olives.
This dish offers both adequate protein and iron.
BAKED PEANUTS
4 cups shelled raw peanuts
4 tablespoons salad oil
Cover peanuts with cold water and soak over night. In the
morning, place them over the fire, and boil ten minutes. Re-
VEGETARIAN DISHES
353
move from water and dry. Add oil and mix well. Place the
mixture in a greased baking-dish and bake (400° F.) until the
peanuts are soft and well browned.
If extra seasoning is desired, a small quantity of catchup,
salt, molasses and mustard may be added during the baking,
as for baked beans.
PEANUT SOUFFLE
1 tablespoon fat
Few drops lemon-juice
6 tablespoons flour
1 1/2 cups scalded mlik
3/4 cup peanut butter
4 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
Melt the fat and add the flour, peanut butter and seasoning.
Cook for three minutes, stirring constantly. Add scalded milk,
and continue cooking until the mixture reaches the boiling-
point. Remove from the fire, pour the hot mixture over the
well-beaten egg-yolks, mixing thoroughly. Cool, and fold in
the egg-whites that have been beaten until stiff and dry. When
the ingredients are thoroughly combined, place in a ring mold,
set in a pan of water in a slow oven (375° F.) and bake thirty
minutes. Serve immediately.
This is a hearty main dish, but, because of its texture, should
have something crisp or solid served with it.
MOCK SAUSAGE
1 cup dried Lima beans or
3 eggs
3 cups cooked beans of
2 tablespoons fat
any kind
1/2 teaspoon sage
2/3 cup bread-crumbs
Salt and pepper
Pick over and wash beans, cover with water and let soak over
night. Drain, cook in boiling salted water until tender, then
force through a strainer. Add remaining ingredients, shape
into the form of sausages, roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again.
Sauté until brown. Serve with tomato sauce.
This recipe makes six to eight sausages, three inches long and
three-fourths of an inch thick. It should be accompanied by
some milk, egg or cheese dish.
354
PEANUT CHOPS
6 half-inch slices rye bread
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup peanut butter
1/8 teaspoon paprika
3/4 cup top milk
Cracker-crumbs
2 eggs
Cut crust from bread and divide in lengthwise strips. Spread
peanut butter on both sides of each strip. Add milk and season-
ing to the eggs and beat thoroughly. Dip strips of bread into
the mixture, remove and dip into sifted cracker-crumbs. Put
into a greased bread-pan and bake in a hot oven (400°-450°
F.) until golden brown. This is a good main dish.
BAKED COW PEAS
2 cups cooked cow peas
1 chopped onion
or split peas
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
2 cups boiled rice
Salt, pepper, and butter
2 cups stewed tomatoes
Put the cooked peas, rice, tomatoes and onion in layers in a
greased baking-dish. Season well, cover with bread-crumbs and
bake (400°) until brown. Serve with brown sauce.
This needs eggs, milk or cheese to accompany it, but it has
excellent flavor.
BEAN ROAST
1 cup roasted shelled peanuts
1/4 cup milk
2 cups seasoned mashed
1 egg
potatoes
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups cooked Lima beans,
1/8 teaspoon paprika
fresh or canned
1 teaspoon onion-juice
Grind the peanuts, using the finest blade of the food-chopper.
In a greased baking-dish place a layer of potatoes, a layer of
beans and a layer of peanuts. Continue making layers until all
the ingredients are used. Blend milk with well-beaten egg and
seasoning and pour over the top. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°-400° F.) until brown. Serve with brown sauce or
tomato sauce.
VEGETARIAN DISHES
355
VEGETABLE LUNCHEON
1 pound kidney beans
2 cups cooked tomatoes, fresh
1 cup diced carrot
or canned
1 green pepper, chopped
1/2 cup rice
1 large onion
1/2 dozen large mushrooms
Soak the beans in cold water overnight; drain and cook in
boiling water slowly for about four hours. A ham-bone or a
piece of bacon cooked with them adds to the flavor. Drain, add
carrot, pepper, tomatoes, and thin slices of onion. Simmer until
tender. Boil rice separately in salted water, drain and add to
the vegetables. (The rice water should be used in soups or
gravies.) Garnish with sautéed green peppers and mushrooms.
CELERY, NUT AND POTATO LOAF
2 large stalks celery
1 egg
3/4 cup chopped nuts
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups mashed potatoes
1/8 teaspoon paprika
3 tablespoons fat
2 teaspoons grated onion
Wash, cut in small pieces and cook the celery until tender
in a small amount of boiling salted water. Drain off liquid.
(This may be used for soup stock later.) Then add the other
ingredients to the celery in the order in which they are given.
Combine them carefully, pack in a loaf in a greased bread-
pan, and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) for thirty-
five minutes. Serve with tomato sauce.
CARROT LOAF OR RING
2 cups ground carrot
2 cups strained tomatoes
2 cups bread-crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup chopped nuts
1/8 teaspoon pepper
3 eggs
2 teaspoons minced onion
Mix the, ingredients in the order given. Shape the mixture
into a loaf and put into a greased baking-pan. Steam the loaf
for one hour and then brown it in the oven (400° F.). Or pour
into greased ring mold, set in pan of hot water and bake in
moderate oven (350° F.) until firm-about 40 minutes. Un-
mold on a hot plate; fill center with hot cooked peas.
356
PEANUT AND CARROT LOAF
1 cup chopped carrots
1 1/2 tablespoons fat
1 cup coarse ground peanuts
4 eggs, slightly beaten
1 cup strained tomatoes
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1 cup crumbs
Salt
Chop separately the carrots and peanuts, or put them through
the food-chopper, using the coarse knife. Add the other in-
gredients and form in a loaf. Place in a greased pan and bake
one hour and a quarter in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
NUT LOAF
2 cups soft bread-crumbs
2 eggs
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups chopped nut-meats
1 teaspoon paprika
Soak bread-crumbs in milk, add nuts, slightly beaten eggs and
seasonings. Turn into greased bread-pan, set into pan of water
and bake (350° F.) forty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce.
The loaf may be steamed instead of baked.
PEANUT ROAST
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 tablespoon chopped celery
1 cup green pea pulp, fresh or
2 tablespoons fat
canned
1/2 cup hot water
Juice of half a lemon
1 1/2 cups chopped peanuts
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
Dash of pepper
Cook onion and celery in fat until golden brown. Add hot
water and simmer until vegetables are tender. Mix other in-
gredients, adding the egg last. Combine the mixture with the
celery and onion mixture. Pack into greased baking-dish and
bake (350° F.) until golden brown. Serve with cream sauce.
BOSTON ROAST
1 1/2 cups dry kidney beans
2 tablespoons chopped onion
3 tablespoons salt
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 to 2 cups grated cheese
1/2 cup milk
Soak beans twenty-four hours.
Cook until soft in water in
which the salt has been dissolved. Drain; chop; add onion,
VEGETARIAN DISHES
357
cheese, crumbs, more salt if needed, and enough milk to moisten.
Form into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) for
forty minutes. Baste occasionally with hot water and fat.
BAKED BEAN ROAST
2 tablespoons minced peppers
2 cups crumbs
2 tablespoons minced onion
1 cup tomatoes
4 tablespoons fat
Salt and pepper
4 cups mashed baked beans
1/2 teaspoon paprika
2 eggs, slightly beaten
Cook pepper and onion in fat. Add other ingredients in the
order given. Bake (350° F.) in greased baking-dish for thirty
minutes. Serve with brown sauce or tomato sauce.
A cheese or milk dish should be added to this meal.
LIMA BEAN LOAF
2 cups Lima beans
1 tablespoon poultry seasoning
1 cup dry bread-crumbs
2 tablespoons grated onion
4 tablespoons peanut butter
1 tablespoon bacon fat
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 cup milk (more, if needed)
Wash and soak the beans overnight, then cook in boiling
water until soft (about forty-five minutes). Drain, cool, then
chop coarsely. Add crumbs mixed with peanut butter and
seasoning, then fat, and milk to moisten. Put into a greased
bread-pan and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) thirty
minutes. Serve with brown sauce, cream sauce or tomato
sauce.
COTTAGE CHEESE AND PEANUT LOAF
1/2 cup peanuts
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cottage cheese
Dash of pepper
1 cup cold, cooked rolled oats
1 teaspoon poultry seasoning
1 cup milk
Few drops Worcestershire
1 egg, slightly beaten
sauce
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon chopped onion
Chop peanuts and add other ingredients in order given.
When thoroughly combined, place in a greased bread-tin. Bake
in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) until brown. Serve hot
with tomato sauce.
358
NUT AND CHEESE LOAF
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon fat
1/4 teaspoon paprika
1 cup grated cheese
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 cup chopped nuts
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire
1/2 cup milk
sauce
1 cup cooked cereal
Buttered crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
Cook onion in fat until delicately brown. Mix with all the
other ingredients and moisten with milk. Cover with buttered
crumbs and brown in oven (400° F.). Serve hot with tomato
sauce.
Serve with some crispy food such as celery.
CHEESE MACARONI LOAF
3/4 cup macaroni
1/2 cup grated cheese
1 teaspoon parsley
1 1/2 cups milk
2 teaspoons chopped onion
1 egg
1 tablespoon green pepper
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 cup buttered crumbs
Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender. Sauté
the parsley, onion and pepper in the fat until tender. Drain
water from macaroni. Place a layer of this in a buttered bak-
ing-dish, then a layer of peppers, onions and cheese. Repeat
until dish is full. Pour over it the milk mixed with the egg.
Cover with buttered crumbs, and brown in oven (400° F.).
Serve with tomato sauce.
VEGETABLE LOAF
1/2 cup cooked green peas
1 cup soft bread-crumbs
1/2 cup cooked green string
1/2 teaspoon salt
beans
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup chopped boiled carrots
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1 1/2 cups milk
1 egg
Press peas through a sieve, cut beans in small pieces, then
combine all vegetables. Add to them the milk, slightly beaten
egg, crumbs and seasoning. Turn into a greased baking-dish
and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) until firm.
418
dip in seasoned crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in more crumbs,
and fry in deep fat (395° F.) from four to five minutes. When
the slices are brown, drain on soft paper. Serve on a platter or
other flat dish. Fried squash makes an excellent luncheon dish.
SQUASH IN THE SHELL
1 squash
Egg
3 tablespoons butter
Milk
Salt and pepper
Cut off the top of a small squash, remove the seeds and
stringy portion, place in a pan and boil, steam or bake about
two hours, until tender. Remove the pulp from the shell, being
careful to keep the large shell intact. Mash the pulp and season
it with salt, pepper and butter.
Return the mixture to the shell, smooth the surface to a dome
shape, score with a knife, brush over with milk and beaten egg,
add bits of butter and place in a quick oven (400° F.) for a
few minutes to brown. Or leave the pulp in the squash, season
well and fill center with ham a la king, chicken a la king,
creamed salmon or sausage mixtures.
BOILED SPINACH
No. 1-AMERICAN STYLE
2 pounds spinach
3 tablespoons butter
Salt and pepper
Remove roots and wilted leaves of the spinach. Wash in
several waters, until all trace of sand has disappeared. Place in
a large kettle without additional water; the water which clings
to the leaves is sufficient. Cover the kettle and cook with low
heat until the spinach is tender. The time of cooking depends
on the age of the spinach. Long cooking darkens it. Salt the
water just before cooking is completed. When done, drain,
chop, season with salt, pepper and butter and one tablespoon
lemon-juice, if desired.
SPINACH MOLD-
1 peck spinach, cooked and
1/4 cup butter
chopped
1 1/2 cups bread crumbs
3 unbeaten eggs
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/4 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
VEGETABLES
419
Combine all ingredients, turn into a buttered ring mold and
steam 2 hours. Unmold and garnish with hard-cooked eggs and
carrots. Fill center of mold with mashed potatoes or creamed
mushrooms.
CREAMED SPINACH
2 pounds spinach
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon butter
2. tablespoons cream
2 hard-cooked egg-yolks
Cook spinach according to directions for boiled spinach No. 1,
drain well, and chop fine. Return to fire, add butter, salt
and pepper, and stir until the butter is melted, then add cream
and chopped yolks and mix well.
SPINACH SOUFFLE
2 cups cooked spinach, fresh or canned
2 eggs
This is a satisfactory way to dispose of left-over cooked
spinach. To the spinach add egg-yolks beaten, place in a
granite saucepan, heat and stir over the fire until the egg sets;
then remove from the heat and when cold add the beaten egg-
whites. Fill individual baking-dishes one-half full of this mix-
ture. Set the dishes in a pan of hot water and bake in a moder-
ate oven (375° F.) from twenty to thirty minutes. Serve at
once to prevent falling.
SPINACH IN EGGS
2 cups boiled spinach
Mustard
6 eggs
Butter
Salt
Vinegar
Red pepper
While the spinach is cooking, cook the eggs hard. Cut eggs
in halves crosswise and remove the yolks. Cut a slice from the
bottom of each cooked egg-white so that it will stand on a
platter. Season the yolks with red pepper, mustard, butter and
salt. Mix thoroughly with vinegar to taste. Fill the egg-cups
with the spinach, mounding it high, and put the rest around
the egg. Put the prepared yolks in a ricer and squeeze over all.
420
SUCCOTASH
2 cups green corn or
Salt and pepper
1 cup dried corn
1 cup milk
2 cups fresh Lima, string or
4 tablespoons butter
butter beans or 1 cup dried
Lima beans
If fresh vegetables are used, cut the corn from the cob. Cover
the beans with the least possible amount of boiling water, to
prevent scorching, and cook until tender. Drain off the water,
add the corn and the milk and cook slowly until the corn is
tender. Add the butter and other seasoning.
When dried corn and beans are used, soak both separately
over night. In the morning, cover the beans with fresh water,
and boil them very gently until tender. Do not drain the water
from the corn, but reduce heat so it will cook slowly. When
the beans are tender, drain and add them to the corn, allowing
only water enough to cover. Cook slowly until tender and drain
off water to save for soup. Add the milk and seasoning.
STEWED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes, fresh or canned
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons butter
Crumbs or flour
Pour boiling water on fresh tomatoes, and after they have
remained covered one minute drain them and plunge them into
cold water. Slip off the skins, remove the hard stem ends, and
cut the tomatoes in pieces. Stew them in their own juice in a
graniteware or porcelain-lined kettle until tender, add butter,
salt, and pepper. Bread-crumbs or cracker-crumbs, or a little
flour blended with the butter, may be added for thickening.
FRIED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes
Crumbs
Salt and pepper
Select firm, ripe tomatoes, wash them and cut in half-inch
slices without removing the skins. Season fine crumbs with salt
and pepper, dip each slice of tomato in the crumbs, and sauté in
hot fat. Serve hot.
VEGETABLES
42I
BAKED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes
1 cup bread-crumbs
4 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon sugar
Salt and pepper
Peel the tomatoes and cut them in slices one-fourth inch
thick. Place a layer of tomatoes in a pudding-dish, and sprinkle
over them a little salt and pepper. Rub the fat into the crumbs
with the sugar. Spread the mixture thickly upon the tomatoes,
using all of it, and add another layer of tomatoes. Add bits
of butter or other fat, sprinkle with dry crumbs, and bake
(350° -400° F.) twenty minutes.
BROILED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes
Melted butter
Salt and pepper
Choose firm, round tomatoes, cut them into slices, three-
quarters inch thick, dust each slice with salt and pepper, place
in a greased broiler and broil tender. Turn once carefully.
Add melted butter and serve at once.
SCALLOPED TOMATOES
6 large fresh tomatoes or
Bread-crumbs
1 quart cooked tomatoes,
Butter or other fat
fresh or canned
Grated cheese, if desired
Salt and pepper
Skin fresh tomatoes and cut them into slices. If using cooked
tomatoes, drain off the juice, using only the pulp. Place a layer
of tomato in a greased baking-dish, add a seasoning of salt and
pepper then a thin layer of bread-crumbs. Cut the fat into
tiny pieces and lay on the crumbs. Then add another layer of
tomato and proceed until the materials are used, having crumbs
for the top layer. Add bits of fat and bake for thirty minutes
in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.). Serve in the baking-dish.
Grated cheese may be added to each layer, or to the top one
only.
SALADS
429
CARDINAL SALAD
2 large beets
Mayonnaise made with vine-
2 tablespoons vinegar
gar from beets
1/2 cup wax beans
Lettuce
1/2 cup peas
Radishes for a garnish
1/2 cup asparagus tips
Boil beets until tender, slice, cover with vinegar and let stand
until the following day. Drain off the vinegar and use it in
making the mayonnaise. Arrange beans, peas, asparagus tips
and mayonnaise in little rose-like nests of lettuce leaves, and
garnish with radishes.
CARROT SALAD
1 cup grated raw carrot
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 cup chopped raw cabbage
1/2 teaspoon salt
or celery, or cabbage and
Mayonnaise or boiled dressing
celery combined
Lettuce leaves
Mix the ingredients well and serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
The grated carrot may be served alone on lettuce or may be
combined with cold boiled peas, with chopped nuts and apples,
or with onions and radishes.
CAULIFLOWER AND SHRIMP SALAD
1 cauliflower
Lettuce
Mayonnaise dressing
Cooked shrimps
Cook the cauliflower in boiling water, drain, and put it, head
down, into a bowl. When cold, place it, stem down, on a shal-
low dish and cover with mayonnaise. Garnish with lettuce ar-
ranged to resemble the leaves of the cauliflower, and add little
clusters of shrimps.
CELERY SALAD
2 cups celery
Strips of pimiento or green
1/2 cup mayonnaise
pepper and celery curls
After thoroughly washing the celery allow it to crisp in cold
water. Then wipe it dry, cut it into inch lengths and these
into lengthwise strips. Place them in a salad-bowl, and add
sufficient mayonnaise dressing to moisten the whole. Garnish
430
with the pimiento or pepper and the celery curls. Serve at once.
Celery salad admits of a wide range of additions, any cold meat,
fish or fowl left from a previous meal being palatable served
in it.
CELERY Curls-These are made from the tender inner
stalks. Cut in lengths of two or three inches and slit in nar-
row strips almost to the end. Place in water with plenty of
ice. As the slit stalks chill, the ends curl.
CRESS SALAD
1 pint water cress
1 onion
French dressing
Pick over the leaves of the cress carefully, removing all
bruised or wilted ones, wash and drain, and with the fingers
break the stems into two-inch lengths. Lay the cress in a salad
bowl, chop the onion very fine, strew it over the cress, add
French dressing and serve.
CRESS AND DANDELION SALAD
1 cup water cress
6 thin slices raw onion
1 cup dandelion greens
French dressing
The dandelion should be fresh and young. Wash the leaves
carefully and drain well. Arrange them in a salad bowl with
the cress. Add the slices of onion and pour the French dressing
over all.
CRESS AND WALNUT SALAD
1/2 cup walnut meats
1 pint water cress
1 lemon
French dressing
Crack walnuts and remove their meats as nearly as possible
in halves. Squeeze over them the juice of the lemon and let
them stand for a short time. Pick over the water cress and
wash it carefully. Drain it on a napkin and at the last moment
drench it with French dressing. Spread the nuts over it and
give them also a generous sprinkling of the dressing.
CUCUMBER SALAD
3 cucumbers
Salt
French dressing
Cut about an inch off the point of each cucumber, and pare
carefully. Slice very thin, sprinkle with a little salt, and let
stand ten minutes. Serve with French dressing.
SALADS
43I
CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD
1 pint grated cucumber
2 teaspoons cold water
Salt and paprika
6 halves of walnut-meats
2 tablespoons vinegar
Mayonnaise
1 tablespoon oil
Lettuce leaves
1 teaspoon gelatin
Peel cucumbers, removing most of the white as well as the
green skin. Grate enough to give one pint and season with salt,
paprika, vinegar and oil. Add gelatin mixed with cold water.
Place over the fire until warm and well mixed. Do not boil.
In the bottom of an individual mold put a half kernel of wal-
nut, then pour in the cucumber mixture and when it has cooled,
chill. When ready to serve, turn each mold on to a nest of
young lettuce leaves, and add a spoonful of mayonnaise.
LETTUCE SALAD
Choose for this the crisp center of the lettuce. Wash it, dry
it well, pull to pieces or cut it into four or six sections, and
arrange it in a salad bowl. Pour over the center of the dish
any dressing preferred. Mayonnaise is frequently used, and
Russian dressing is used even more frequently, perhaps, but
with a heavy dinner the French dressing is to be preferred to
any other.
The following vegetables may be used instead of or with let-
tuce: endive, peppergrass, water cress, nasturtium leaves, spin-
ach, chicory, sorrel, dandelion, escarole, and romaine.
LETTUCE AND ONION SALAD
2 lettuce hearts
French dressing
1 Spanish onion
Strip off, and set aside for some other purpose, the green
leaves of lettuce. Wash the hearts, pull them to pieces or cut
into sections, and drop into ice-water to crisp them. Peel
the Spanish onion and cut it into thin shavings. Shake the
lettuce in a colander or wire basket to free it from water or dry
on a towel. Fill the salad bowl with alternate layers of the
lettuce and onion slices, sprinkling on each layer a little French
dressing.
432
POTATO SALAD
No. 1.
1 quart potatoes
2 tablespoons grated onion
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
French dressing to moisten
Boil the potatoes with skins on and allow them to cool before
peeling, as it is considered a good thing to have potatoes waxy
rather than mealy for salad. Peel potatoes, cut into small pieces
or thin slices, and mix with parsley, onion, and French dressing.
Set in a cool place for two hours before serving.
No. 2.
1 quart new potatoes
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
1 tablespoon oil
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons vinegar
Thin mayonnaise or boiled
1 onion
dressing
2 stalks celery
Cut beets
1 tablespoon capers
Lettuce, lemon
Boil potatoes until done, but not too soft, slice them when
cooled and add oil and vinegar. Chop onion and celery very
fine, and add, with capers, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste.
Pour a thin mayonnaise over all, mixing thoroughly with a
wooden spoon and fork. Garnish with lettuce, a few pieces of
lemon and cut beets.
POTATO AND PEA SALAD
2 cups boiled potatoes, diced
1/2 cup French dressing
1 cup boiled peas
Lettuce, mayonnaise
Pour two-thirds of the French dressing over the diced pota-
toes, and the other third over the cold peas, and set where they
will be chilled. After an hour, combine them and arrange on
lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise.
SPINACH SALAD
1 pint spinach
2 hard-cooked eggs
French dressing
Wash spinach carefully. Select only thick, tender leaves (save
others and stems for cooking). If too large, tear to size. Shake
off excess water. Chop whites and yolks of eggs separately and
turn into bowl with leaves. Moisten with tart French dressing.
Add any mild-flavored vegetable.
SALADS
433
TOMATO AND LETTUCE SALAD
No. 1.
3 tomatoes
Lettuce leaves
6 tablespoons French dressing
Scald the tomatoes, remove the skins and chill the tomatoes.
Just before serving time, cut them in halves, crosswise, and
place one piece, with the outside upward, on each serving-plate
with one or two leaves of white, crisp lettuce underneath. Pour
over each portion a tablespoon of French dressing.
No. 2.
3 tomatoes
1/3 to 1/2 cup French dressing
Lettuce
1 tablespoon capers
Select smooth tomatoes about two inches in diameter. Scald,
peel and chill. Cut in quarters or in slices and arrange on a
plate with lettuce leaves or sections of lettuce hearts. Add
the capers to the dressing.
TOMATO AND CELERY SALAD
6 tomatoes
1/3 to 1/2 cup mayonnaise
2 cups celery, diced
Lettuce leaves
Select firm tomatoes of a good size, scald, peel and chill, cut
a slice from the top of each, and scoop out all the seeds and
soft pulp, being careful not to break the sides. Cut celery into
small dice, mix it with mayonnaise dressing, fill the shells with
mixture, place one teaspoon of the dressing on top of each
tomato and serve individually on a bed of lettuce leaves, plac-
ing three or four small leaves on each plate and the tomato in
the center.
TOMATO SURPRISE SALAD
6 tomatoes
1/4 cup mayonnaise dressing
3/4 cup diced cucumber
Lettuce
1/2 cup diced, cooked chicken
Parsley, cauliflower buds
1/4 cup chopped nuts
Select medium-sized smooth tomatoes. Scald, peel and chill.
Carefully scoop the inside out of the tomatoes. Remove the
seeds from the pulp. Chill all ingredients, and when ready to
serve, mix the chicken, cucumber, tomato pulp, and nuts with
434
the mayonnaise dressing. Add more salt if needed. Fill the
tomatoes. Arrange on lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise
and decorate each tomato top with parsley and cauliflower buds.
TOMATO JELLY SALAD
3 cups stewed tomatoes,
1 teaspoon sugar
fresh or canned
Salt
1/4 cup chopped onion
1 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup cold water
1 bay-leaf
1 clove
Lettuce
1/4 green pepper pod
Mayonnaise
Cook tomatoes with seasonings. Soak gelatin in cold water,
add to boiling tomatoes, strain and pour into cups about the
size of a tomato. Make a nest of small green lettuce leaves for
each mold when serving, and place one tablespoon of mayon-
naise on top of each tomato as it is turned from the mold.
Tomato jelly is often molded in a square pan and cut in
diamonds or cubes, when it makes an attractive garnish.
TOMATO ROSE SALAD
Firm tomatoes
Hard-cooked egg yolk
Cream cheese
Watercress or lettuce
Milk
French dressing
Peel tomatoes and chill them. Slightly soften cream cheese
with milk. Form two rows of petals on each tomato by pressing
level teaspoons of the softened cheese against the side of the to-
mato, then drawing the teaspoon down with a curving motion.
Sprinkle center of each tomato with hard-cooked egg yolk
pressed through a strainer. Serve on crisp watercress or lettuce
with French dressing.
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
1 pint cream
1 teaspoon powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups cut up fruit (fresh,
1 teaspoon instantaneous
canned, or candied cherries,
gelatin
peaches, pineapple, etc.)
2 tablespoons cold water
3/4 cup mayonnaise
Lettuce
Soak the gelatin in the cold water, melt it over steam, and
beat it into the mayonnaise. Add the sugar to the cream and
SALADS
435
whip it, then combine with the mayonnaise. Stir in the cut-up
fruit. Pack and freeze as directed in the preceding recipe. The
mayonnaise may be omitted and served separately.
ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD
2 alligator pears
French dressing
Lettuce leaves
The alligator pear, or avocado, is now available in all markets
at very reasonable prices throughout the greater part of the
year. Cut each pear into six pieces, giving wedge-shaped sec-
tions, and if these are too large, cut each section again length-
wise. Peel and arrange wedges on beds of lettuce leaves. Either
French dressing or Russian dressing may be used, but the fruit
is so rich that French dressing is preferred by most people.
APRICOT AND BANANA SALAD
2 cups lettuce leaves, shredded
Whipped cream or boiled
1 cup sliced bananas
dressing
6 stewed apricots
On each plate arrange a bed of shredded lettuce, and on it
place a layer of sliced ripe bananas, topped by the halves of an
apricot. Serve with whipped cream or boiled dressing.
BANANA AND NUT SALAD
3 well ripened bananas
1/2 cup mayonnaise or boiled
1/2 cup chopped nuts
dressing
6 leaves lettuce
Peel bananas and cut in two lengthwise. Roll each half in
nut-meats. Place on lettuce leaf and garnish with dressing.
Equal parts of dressing and whipped cream may be used.
COCONUT, CELERY AND APPLE SALAD
1 1/2 cups mixed diced tart
4 tablespoons orange-juice
apples and celery
Salt
1/2 cup shredded coconut
Paprika
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Lettuce leaves
4 tablespoons oil
Currant or plum jelly
Mix the apples, celery, and coconut. Sprinkle with the
lemon-juice. Add a French dressing made from the oil and
SALADS
437
ORANGE SALAD
Peel oranges and free the sections entirely from the mem-
brane. Remove seeds, cut sections in halves crosswise, lay on
bed of lettuce leaves, and serve with French dressing. Sprinkle
with tarragon or with minced green pepper, if desired. Minced
celery may be added.
PEAR SALAD
No. 1.
3 pears
French dressing
Lettuce leaves
Strips of pimiento
After paring the fruit, cut in eighths lengthwise and remove
seeds. Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing
made from oil and lemon-juice. Garnish with strips of pi-
miento. The dressing will prevent discoloration if it is poured
over the pears at once.
No. 2.
6 pears
1/2 cup broken walnut-meats
6 stalks celery
and stoned olives, chopped
Mayonnaise
Lettuce leaves
Salt and pepper
Select well-formed pears and cut off a bit of the broad end
so that the pear will stand steadily on the plate. With a potato-
ball cutter remove the center, leaving enough of the pear to
make a thick cup. Cut the celery into dice, add broken walnut-
meats and chopped olives and mix all together with mayonnaise,
adding a pinch of salt and pepper. Fill the pear cups and serve
on lettuce leaves.
PEAR AND CHERRY SALAD
6 halves of stewed pears,
36 white cherries
fresh or canned
Boiled dressing or mayon-
Lettuce leaves
naise
Place the half pears on crisp lettuce leaves. Stone the cherries
and arrange them around the pears. Serve with preferred dress-
ing.
438
PINEAPPLE AND NUT SALAD IN TOMATO
BASKETS
1 cup crushed pineapple
6 tomatoes
1 cup broken nut-meats
Mayonnaise
French dressing
Salt
Mix pineapple with nut-meats and stand in French dressing
in the refrigerator. Peel and cut off the top of each tomato
leaving a strip to form a handle. Carefully scoop out the center
and fill with the pineapple and nuts. Place one teaspoon of
mayonnaise on top of each basket.
PINEAPPLE AND CREAM CHEESE SALAD
6 slices canned pineapple
French dressing
1 cup cream cheese
Lettuce leaves
Purple grape-juice
Work enough grape-juice into the cream cheese to soften it
so that it can be made into balls with the hands or with butter
paddles. Place a slice of pineapple on a lettuce leaf, put a cheese
ball on top and pour grape-juice and French dressing over all.
TROPICAL SALAD
1 cup cantaloup balls
Any desired dressing
6 slices tomatoes
Lettuce leaves
Garnish of red pepper
With a vegetable cutter, cut small balls from a cantaloup
that is fairly firm in texture. Arrange several balls on a slice
of tomato which has been placed on a nest. of lettuce leaves.
Garnish with pieces of red pepper or green pepper cut in dia-
mond shapes. Serve with any desired dressing.
WALDORF SALAD
1 cup diced apple
French dressing
1 cup diced celery
Lettuce leaves
1/2 cup broken walnut-meats
Mayonnaise
Fold together the apple, celery, and nuts with French dress-
ing and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. Do not allow
SALADS
439
this to stand long before serving, as the nuts will discolor the
fruit.
WASHINGTON SALAD
3/4 cup chopped celery
3/4 cup canned cherries
3/4 cup bottoms of artichokes,
3/4 cup diced grapefruit pulp
chopped
Cheese straws
Pile cheese straws in log-cabin style, on a large plate, leaving
a center space sufficient to hold the salad. Mix celery, arti-
chokes, cherries and grapefruit pulp with French dressing and
decorate with a large spoon of mayonnaise. Serve two cheese
straws with each portion of salad.
FROZEN CHEESE SALAD
1/2 pound cream cheese
1/2 cup cream, whipped
1 green pepper, chopped
2 to 4 teaspoons salt, celery
1 cup crushed pineapple
salt, mustard, paprika,
1/2 cup mayonnaise
mixed according to taste
Soften the cheese. Add pepper, mayonnaise, pineapple and
seasonings and fold in with whipped cream. Freeze.
CREAM CHEESE SALAD
1 1/2 cups cream cheese or
Lettuce leaves
cottage cheese
French dressing
Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on a salad-dish and press cream
cheese through a potato-ricer upon them, The cheese must be
thoroughly chilled before making a salad, and it should be
served immediately. Use French dressing and pass bar-le-duc
or guava jelly or any preferred fruit jam or jelly with it.
COMBINATION CREAM CHEESE BALL SALAD
3/4 cup cream cheese
1/4 cup chopped nut-meats or
3/4 cup chopped celery
chopped parsley
2 tablespoons chopped olives
French dressing
Lettuce leaves
Mix cream cheese with chopped celery and olives and form
into balls about the size of a large hickory nut. Roll each
440
ball in chopped nut-meats or chopped parsley. Arrange on
lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing.
PEAR-GRAPE SALAD-Frost the curved surface of one-half
pear with cream cheese, stud with one-half grapes and garnish
with chicory and watercress, or other attractive greens.
LETTUCE AND CHEESE SALAD
No. 1.
1 cup hard cheese
1/2 cup shredded lettuce
Milk or cream
1/2 cup pimiento strips
Pepper and salt
Lettuce leaves
6 chopped olives
Boiled or mayonnaise dressing
Put the cheese through a food-grinder and moisten slightly
with milk or cream. Add pepper and salt to taste. Add
chopped olives, shredded lettuce and pimiento strips. Press this
mixture into the form of a brick and, when cool and firm, cut
in slices. Place on lettuce leaves and serve with boiled or mayon-
naise dressing.
FROSTED MELON MOLD
Melon
Milk
Fruit gelatin
Curly endive or chicory
Cream cheese
French or mayonnaise dressing
Peel a whole melon. Cut a slice from end and remove seeds.
Fill center with fruit gelatin and refrigerate until gelatin is
firm. Slightly soften cheese with milk and frost the entire out-
side of melon. Serve in slices on crisp chicory, with dressing.
EGG AND PEANUT SALAD WITH CELERY
6 hard-cooked eggs
Mayonnaise
1/4 to 1/2 cup chopped peanuts
Celery curls
or peanut butter
Garnish of peanut halves
Cut the eggs in half lengthwise, remove the yolks and com-
bine with chopped peanuts or peanut butter and mayonnaise to
moisten. Fill the whites with this mixture. Put two halves
of egg on a plate, surround with curls of celery. Put two
tablespoons of mayonnaise dressing over each egg and garnish
with peanut halves. Lay a halved peanut on each celery
curl.
450
BOILED DRESSING
No. 1.
1/2 cup vinegar
1/2 teaspoon mustard
1 teaspoon fat
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 egg-yolks
1/16 teaspoon cayenne
1 tablespoon, sugar
Whipped cream, sweet or sour
Heat the vinegar to the boiling-point and melt the fat in
the vinegar. Beat the egg-yolks until thick and lemon-colored.
Add the sugar, mustard, salt and cayenne, mixed. Gradually
pour the hot vinegar on the yolk mixture, and cook in a double
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Add whipped cream
just before serving.
CREAMY EGGLESS MAYONNAISE
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/2 cup evaporated milk, undiluted
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons vinegar
Few grains white pepper
1/4 to 1 1/2 cups salad oil
Mix dry ingredients with milk; beat in vinegar, add oil grad-
ually, beating thoroughly. Since the mixture thickens somewhat
when chilled, it may be desirable to thin it with undiluted
evaporated milk before using, or less oil can be used if a thinner
mixture is desired. Makes 1 pint.
SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 teaspoon sugar
2 tablespoons vinegar
1/8 teaspoon cayenne
1 cup sour cream
This makes an excellent dressing for vegetable salads. Place
the salt, sugar, and pepper together in a bowl, mix well and
add the lemon-juice, then the vinegar. When the mixture is
perfectly smooth, put in the cream, stir well and set on the ice
until needed.
DRESSING FOR MEAT SALADS
Tartar, Hollandaise and Vinaigrette sauces (see Index for
recipes) may be used with meat salads if desired.
CAKES
457
ONE-EGG CAKE
1/4 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg, unbeaten
3/4 cup milk
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until fluffy.
Add egg and beat thoroughly. Sift dry ingredients together 3
times and add alternately with milk and vanilla. Pour into
greased pans. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 25 minutes.
Makes 2 (9-inch) layers.
CARMEL OR BURNT SUGAR CAKE
1 3/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup butter or other
1/3 cup hot water
shortening
3 cups sifted cake flour
3 eggs, unbeaten
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons burnt sugar
sirup
2/3 cup milk
Prepare burnt sugar sirup. Place 1/2 cup of the sugar in a
heavy skillet, stirring constantly as sugar melts. When it be-
comes dark brown, remove from heat, add hot water very
slowly and stir until dissolved. Cool. Sift flour, baking powder
and salt together 3 times. Cream shortening, add remaining
sugar (1 1/4 cups) gradually and cream until light and fluffy.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating thoroughly after each. Add van-
illa and 3 tablespoons of the sirup; blend. Add dry ingredients
and milk alternately, beating until smooth. Pour into pans
lined with waxed paper and bake in a moderate oven (350° F.)
25 to 30 minutes. Makes 2 (9-inch) layers.
IN-A-JIFFY CAKE
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
3/4 cup milk
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup melted shortening
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg, beaten
Sift dry ingredients together 3 times. Combine remaining
ingredients and add gradually to dry ingredients. Beat mix-
ture 2 minutes. Pour into greased cake pan. Bake in moderate
oven (350°F.) 30 minutes. Makes 1 (8 X 8 X 2 inch) cake.
458
ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE (Measure Cake)
1 cup butter or other
3 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 eggs, separated
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening and sugar until fluffy. Add egg yolks
1
at a time, beating thoroughly after each one is added. Sift dry
ingredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk and
vanilla to creamed mixture, beating until smooth after each
addition. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into pans lined
with waxed paper and bake in moderate oven (350°F.) 25 min-
utes. Makes 3 (9-inch) layers.
MAPLE SIRUP CAKE
1/2 cup sugar
Salt
1/3 cup shortening
2 1/4 cups flour
3/4 cup maple sirup
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup milk
3 egg whites
Cream the sugar and shortening together. Add the sirup and
stir well. Add the milk and flour alternately. Fold in the
beaten whites and bake in an oblong pan (350°-375°F. ) 45-60
minutes. When the cake is baked and cool, place it on an
inverted cake pan and cover with Maple Sugar Frosting, No. 2.
DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
2 1/4 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 7/8 cups brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3 eggs, well beaten
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup boiling water
3/4 cup sour milk
3 ounces (3 squares) bitter
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
chocolate
Cream shortening thoroughly; add sugar gradually and cream
mixture until light and fluffy. Add beaten eggs and beat well.
Meanwhile pour the boiling water over chocolate; stir over low
heat until smooth and thick; cool and add to egg mixture;
blend thoroughly. Sift flour once, measure and combine with
remaining dry ingredients and sift 3 times, then add to choco-
CAKES
459
late mixture, alternately with milk and vanilla combined. Beat
well after each addition. Pour batter into greased pans which
have been lined with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) until done, 25 to 30 minutes. Makes 3 (8-inch) lay-
ers. Spread with Boiled Frosting (page 479).
CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
shortening
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
4 eggs, separated
4 ounces (4 squares) bitter
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
chocolate (melted)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup walnuts, chopped
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening, add sugar slowly and beat until light and
fluffy. Add unbeaten egg yolks and beat vigorously. Sift dry
ingredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk to
creamed mixture. Stir in chocolate, nuts and vanilla and mix
well. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into waxed-paper-
lined loaf pan and bake in a moderately slow oven (325°F.)
about 50 minutes. Makes 1 loaf (4 X 8 inches). When cool,
spread top and sides with Marshmallow-Cream Frosting (page
482) or Boiled Frosting (page 479).
SOUR CREAM COCOA CAKE
1/2 cup cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup boiling water
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sifted cake flour
3 egg whites
Mix cocoa in boiling water and stir until smooth. Cool.
Cream shortening and sugar together until light and fluffy. Add
cocoa mixture to creamed mixture. Sift flour, salt and soda
together. Add dry ingredients alternately with cream to first
mixture. Beat until smooth after each addition. Add vanilla.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into pans lined with
waxed paper and bake in a moderate oven (350) F.) 30 minutes.
Makes 2 (9-inch) layers. Spread Mocha Frosting (page 482)
between layers and on top.
460
COFFEE CAKE
2 tablespoons shortening
3/4 cup flour
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cream the shortening and sugar, add the beaten egg yolk
and the sifted dry ingredients alternately with the milk. Add
vanilla. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg white. Spread one half
of the mixture in a deep greased piepan.
FILLING-
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 cup chopped walnuts
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons melted fat
Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and spread one half over
the batter in the pan. Add the rest of the cake batter and spread
the remainder of the filling over the top. Bake in a moderate
oven (350°-375°F.) 45-60 minutes.
SOUR MILK CHOCOLATE CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
2 ounces (2 squares)
1 1/2 cups sugar
chocolate, melted'
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sifted cake flour
3 eggs, separated
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour milk
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually, creaming until fluffy,
add vanilla and beaten egg yolks, then chocolate. Sift dry in-
gredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk. Fold
in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into 2 greased (9-inch) pans
and bake in a 350 F. oven 25 minutes.
GINGER COCONUT CAKES
2/3 cup molasses
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup butter or other
2 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon ginger
2 eggs, beaten
Heat first 5 ingredients to boiling, stirring constantly. Cool
CAKES
461
to lukewarm. Sift soda and flour together and add alternately
with milk and eggs, beating thoroughly. Pour into greased
muffin pans. Bake in a 350°F. oven 15 minutes. Makes 16 cakes.
Cover with boiled frosting and coconut.
NUT CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup milk
2 eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
1 cup chopped nut meats
Cream shortening and sugar, add egg yolks and beat well.
Sift flour and baking powder and add alternately with milk and
vanilla. Add nuts and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in
a greased loaf pan in a 350 F. oven 50 minutes.
WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
2 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 egg whites, stiffly beaten
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until light
and fluffy. Sift flour, baking powder and salt together 3 times
and add alternately with milk and vanilla a small amount at a
time, beating after each addition until smooth. Pour into a tube
pan lined with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.)
45 to 60 minutes. When cake is cold, cover with Boiled Frost-
ing, page 479.
WHITE CAKE
2/3 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
5 egg whites, stiffly beaten
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until light
and fluffy. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and add alter-
nately with milk and vanilla to creamed mixture. Fold in egg
whites. Pour into greased pans and bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) 30 minutes. Makes 3 (9-inch) layers.
462
GOLD CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
2 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 egg yolks, beaten
3/4 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg
yolks and continue creaming. Sift dry ingredients together 3
times; add alternately with liquids to creamed mixture. Beat
until smooth. Pour into cake pans lined with waxed paper.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 18 to 20 minutes. Makes 3
(9-inch) layers.
ORANGE CAKE
3/4 cup shortening
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 eggs
1/2 cup orange juice
Grated rind of 1 orange
1 tablespoon lemon juice
3 cups sifted cake flour
1/2 cup water
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually, creaming until light
and fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly after
each addition. Add orange rind. Sift dry ingredients together
3 times and add alternately with liquids to creamed mixture.
Pour into cake pans lined with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate
oven (350°F.) 25 to 30 minutes. Makes 2 (9-inch) layers.
When cold spread Orange Filling (page 477) between layers
and Twice Cooked Frosting or Seven Minute Frosting (page
479) on top and sides.
LAYER CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 eggs, separated
2/3 cup milk
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and beat until fluffy,
then add beaten egg yolks. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times
and add alternately with milk and vanilla to creamed mixture.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in 2 layers in a moderate
oven (350°F.) 20 minutes. When cold fill and frost as desired.
CAKES
463
LADY BALTIMORE CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
1/2 teaspoon salt
shortening
1/2 cup milk
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
6 egg whites
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Sift flour,
baking powder and salt together 3 times. Combine milk, water
and vanilla. Add small amounts of flour to creamed mixture,
alternately with milk mixture, beating until smooth after each
addition. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry and fold into
mixture. Pour into cake pans lined with waxed paper. Bake in
moderate oven (350°F.) 25 minutes. Makes 3 (9-inch) layers.
LADY BALTIMORE FROSTING AND FILLING-
3 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup water
1/2 cup chopped figs
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup chopped raisins
3 egg whites, stiffly beaten
1 cup chopped nut meats
Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar together to 238°F. or
until a small amount of sirup will form a soft ball when tested
in cold water. Pour hot sirup gradually over beaten whites,
beating constantly and continuing to beat until mixture is of
spreading consistency. Add vanilla. Divide mixture in half.
Add fruit and nuts to 1 portion and spread between layers of
cake. Frost top and sides with remaining frosting.
MARBLE CAKE
1/3 cup butter or other
2 teaspoon baking powder
shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup milk
2 eggs, well beaten
1 ounce (1 square)
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
chocolate, melted
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until light
and fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Sift dry
ingredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk to
creamed mixture, beating until smooth. To 1/3 of the batter
add chocolate and blend thoroughly. Place by spoonfuls in a
greased tube pan, alternating light and dark mixtures. Bake in
a moderate oven (350°F.) 1 hour.
464
BLITZ TORTE
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup sugar
4 egg whites
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
4 egg yolks, beaten light
1/2 cup sliced blanched
1 teaspoon vanilla
almonds
3 tablespoons milk
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
Cream shortening; beat in sugar and salt, then egg yolks,
vanilla, milk and flour (sifted with baking powder). Spread
mixture in 2 round greased cake pans. Beat egg whites until
very light, add 3/4 cup sugar gradually and spread on the un-
baked mixture in both pans. Sprinkle with almonds, 1 table-
spoon sugar and cinnamon and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.)
about 30 minutes. Let cool and put together with cream fill-
ing. Makes 1 (9-inch) 2 layer cake.
CREAM FILLING-
1/3 cup sugar
2 egg yolks
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups milk, scalded
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine sugar, cornstarch, salt and egg yolks; beat thor-
oughly. Add butter and enough milk to make a smooth paste.
Add paste to remaining hot milk and cook over boiling water,
stirring constantly until mixture is thickened. Cool and add
vanilla. If desired add 1/2 cup chopped nut meats.
OLD-FASHIIONED POUNDCAKE
1 pound butter (2 cups)
10 eggs, separated
1 pound sifted cake flour
1 pound sugar (2 cups)
(4 cups)
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter, work in flour until mixture is mealy. Beat egg
yolks, sugar and vanilla until thick and fluffy. Add first mix-
ture gradually, beating thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten egg
whites. Beat vigorously 5 minutes. Bake in 2 loaf pans lined
with waxed paper, in a moderately slow oven (325°F.) 1 1/4
hours. Makes 2 loaves (8 X 4 inches).
CAKES
465
SPICE CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups brown sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
3 eggs, separated
1 teaspoon cloves
2 cups sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup thick sour cream
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy, add beaten
yolks. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and add alternately
with cream to first mixture, beating thoroughly after each addi-
tion. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into cake pan lined
with waxed paper. Bake in moderate oven (350°F.) about 50
minutes. Makes 1 cake (9 inches square).
FIG LOAF CAKE
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
4 eggs, well beaten
1 teaspoon nutmeg
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 cup water
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 pound figs, finely cut
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups chopped raisins
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until fluffy.
Beat in eggs. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and add alter-
nately with water to creamed mixture. Blend in fruits. Bake in
a waxed-paper-lined loaf pan (5 1/2 X 10 inches) in a slow oven
(300°F.) about 2 hours.
DELICIOUS FRUITCAKE
4 cups sifted cake flour
1 pound citron, sliced
1 teaspoon mace
2 cups blanched almonds,
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
sliced
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 pound butter
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups light brown sugar
3 pounds currants
9 eggs, separated
2 pounds seeded raisins
1 cup strong cold coffee
Sift flour, spices and soda together 3 times. Mix with fruits
and nuts. Cream butter and sugar together until fluffy. Beat
yolks until thick and whites until stiff; add to creamed mixture.
Add flour-fruit mixture alternately with coffee. Pour into
greased pans lined with greased paper. Bake in very slow oven
(275°F.) 3 to 4 hours. Rich fruitcake is sometimes steamed
1 hour, then baked for remaining time.
466
WEDDING CAKE
2 pounds butter
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 pound granulated sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
3/4 pound brown sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
20 eggs
2 tablespoons nutmeg
2 oranges, juice and grated
2 tablespoons mace
rind
1
glass tart jelly
1 lemon, juice and grated rind
3 pounds seeded raisins
1 teaspoon soda
2 pounds seedless raisins
1 cup molasses
5 pounds currants
1 cup black coffee
1 pound almonds
1 cup fruit juice
2 pounds citron
2 pounds flour
2 cups flour (for the fruit)
Cream the butter till very soft, add the white sugar and the
sifted brown sugar and mix thoroughly. Add the beaten yolks
and mix again with the grated rind. Add one half the soda
to the molasses, stir until foamy and add, with the coffee and
fruit juices, alternating with the two pounds of flour, the rest
of soda, the salt and spices sifted together. Break the jelly into
pieces and stir in. It is not necessary to have the jelly
thoroughly mixed in.
Look over the raisins and currants, wash if necessary, drain
and dry. Blanch the almonds and slice. Save half the nuts to
sprinkle on the bottom and top of cake. Cut the citron in thin
strips. Mix the two cups of flour thoroughly with this fruit.
Candied orange or grapefruit peel may be used for citron.
Mix the prepared fruit with the batter. This may be added
from time to time with the flour. When all is thoroughly com-
bined fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites.
This amount makes about twenty four pounds of cake, and
can be baked in small loaves or in one large one. Whatever
size is chosen line the greased pans with three layers of paper
(bottom and sides) having the top layer well greased. Sprinkle
the bottom with about one third of the reserved nuts. Put the
mixture into the pan making sure that the corners are well filled
and that the top is level and smooth. Sprinkle the remaining
nuts on the top. If made into one large cake steam four hours
and then bake one hour in a very slow oven (250°-275 F.). If
made into small cakes they can be baked without steaming first.
Bake in a slow oven (250° F.) for two hours. Let cool in the
pan, but have it stand on a rack so as to have a circulation of
air underneath as well as on the top and sides.
CAKES
467
Turn out and remove the paper. Cool and store in a cool dry
place tightly covered. A few sound apples placed in the con-
tainer where cake is stored will help keep the cake moist if it
must be kept long, but they must be watched and replaced if
they begin to show decay, or if they become shrivelled.
As there is so much preparation involved, the fruits and nuts
can be gotten ready several days before the cake is to be baked.
Even after the cake is entirely mixed and in the pan or pans
it can stand overnight if kept in a cool place.
CHRISTMAS FRUITCAKE
1 pound butter
1 pound citron, sliced
1 1/2 pounds brown sugar
1 pound dates, sliced
1 1/2 pounds flour
10 eggs, well beaten
2 teaspoons nutmeg
1 cup molasses
1 teaspoon mace
1 cup strong cold coffee
1 teaspoon cloves
Juice and grated rind of
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 oranges
1 teaspoon baking soda
Juice and grated rind of
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 lemon
3 pounds raisins
1 cup tart jelly
2 pounds currants
1/4 pound almonds, sliced
Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Sift dry ingredients
together 3 times and mix with fruit. Add eggs to creamed mix-
ture. Add flour-fruit mixture alternately with next 5 ingredients
and beat thoroughly. Pour into pans lined with greased paper.
Sprinkle almonds on top. Cover cakes with greased paper.
Steam for 2 hours, then bake in slow oven (300°F.) 1 1/2 to 2
hours, removing paper last 1/2 hour to dry surface.
DRIED APRICOT CAKE
1 cup dried apricots
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups water
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
6 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 egg yolks
1/4 cup water
Simmer first 3 ingredients together 30 minutes. Mash and
measure 1/2 cup pulp. Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly,
add yolks and vanilla; beat. Sift dry ingredients together and
add alternately with water and pulp. Bake in a cake pan (8 x 8
inches), lined with waxed paper, at 350°F., 45 minutes.
468
APPLESAUCE SPICE CAKE
No. 1.
1/2 cup butter or other
2 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
2 eggs, beaten light
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup chopped nuts
1 cup unsweetened
1 cup chopped raisins
applesauce
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Add eggs
and mix thoroughly. Add nuts and raisins. Sift dry ingredients
together 3 times and add alternately with applesauce to creamed
mixture, beating thoroughly after each addition. Pour into a
greased loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) for
1 hour. If baked in layers, bake only for 25 minutes. Makes
1 loaf (8 X 4 inches) or 2 (9-inch) layers.
No. 2.
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1 egg, beaten
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 cup unsweetened
1 teaspoon allspice
applesauce
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Add egg
and mix thoroughly. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and
add alternately with applesauce to creamed mixture, beating
thoroughly after each addition. Pour into a cake pan lined with
waxed paper and bake in moderate oven (350°F.) 45 minutes.
Makes 1 cake (8 X 8 X 2 inches). Frost with Caramel Frosting
(page 479).
TRUE SPONGECAKE
1 cup sifted cake flour
5 egg yolks, beaten until
1/4 teaspoon salt
thick and lemon-colored
Grated rind 1/2 lemon
5 egg whites
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 cup sugar
Sift flour and salt together 4 times. Add lemon rind and juice
to beaten yolks and beat until thick and light. Beat egg whites
until stiff, but not dry. Fold in sugar, a small amount at a
time, then add egg yolks. Fold in flour, sifting about 1/4 cup at
a time over surface. Bake in ungreased tube pan in moderate
CAKES
469
oven (350°F.) 1 hour. Remove from oven and invert pan
1 hour before removing cake.
FOR MARTHA WASHINGTON CREAM PIE, bake in 2 cake pans.
Use the filling page 474 and top with whipped cream. When
serving cut in wedges like a pie.
HOT WATER SPONGECAKE
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 tablespoon lemon juice
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 eggs, separated
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons hot water
Proceed as for True Spongecake (page 468), adding water
to egg and sugar mixture before adding dry ingredients.
MERINGUE SPONGECAKE
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 1/4 cups sugar
6 egg yolks, beaten thick
3/4 cup egg whites (6)
1 1/8 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon cream tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Boil water and sugar together to soft-ball stage (238°F.) .
Beat egg whites until stiff, but not dry, pour sirup over whites,
add cream of tartar and beat until cool. Add juice. Fold egg
yolks into sirup mixture. Fold in flour sifted with salt. Bake in
ungreased pan in a 350°F. oven 45 minutes.
ANGEL CAKE
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup egg whites
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
(8 to 10 eggs)
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
Sift 1/4 cup sugar and flour together 4 times. Beat egg whites,
cream of tartar and salt to a stiff foam. Add remaining sugar,
a little at a time, beating it in, preferably with a rotary beater.
Add flavorings. Fold in flour, sifting a little at a time over egg
white and sugar mixture. Pour into a large ungreased tube pan;
cut through batter with a spatula to remove large air bubbles.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 45 to 60 minutes. Remove
from oven; invert pan 1 hour.
47°
ROLLED CAKES
5 eggs
1/2 cup sifted cake flour
2/3 cup sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup jelly or jam, slightly beaten
Combine eggs and sugar and beat only until blended. Place
over hot water and heat until mixture is slightly hot (140°F.).
Remove from heat and beat until mixture holds a limp peak.
Combine salt and flour and fold into egg mixture. Fold in but-
ter a tablespoonful at a time. Blend in vanilla. Pour into a jelly
roll pan (15 X 10 inches) lined with waxed paper. Bake in a
moderate oven (350°F.) 15 to 20 minutes. Turn quickly onto
waxed paper covered with confectioners' sugar. Remove bottom
paper and trim sides. Spread quickly with jelly and roll; or
roll cake and when cold unroll and spread with jelly. Wrap in
waxed paper and cool. Just before serving sprinkle cake with
confectioners' sugar. Makes 1 roll.
LEMON ROLL-Spread cake roll with Lemon Filling (page
476) instead of jelly or jam.
MARSHMALLOW CHOCOLATE ROLL-Spread with Marshmal-
low-Cream Frosting (page 482) and roll. Wrap in cloth to cool.
Unwrap and frost with coating made by adding 1 teaspoon
melted butter to 1 square melted, bitter chocolate.
GRAHAM CRACKER CREAM CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1 cup graham cracker
2 eggs, beaten
crumbs
1 cup sifted cake flour
1 cup milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon almond extract
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Beat in eggs.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together 3 times, add crumbs
and add alternately with milk and almond extract to creamed
mixture. Pour into 2 (8-inch) cake pans lined with waxed
paper. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 25 to 30 minutes.
Put layers together with Cream Filling (page 464) and frost top
and sides with a butter frosting.
CAKES
471
WHIPPED CREAM CAKE
1 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 eggs, beaten until thick
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
and lemon colored
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
Whip cream until it holds its shape. Add eggs and whip until
light as foam. Add sugar and beat again. Add vanilla. Sift
flour, salt and baking powder together 3 times and add to egg
mixture. Bake in greased layer cake pans in a moderate oven
(350° F.) 25 to 30 minutes. Makes 2 (8-inch) layers. Cool
and spread Seven Minute Icing (page 479) or whipped cream
between the layers and on top.
SOUR CREAM CAKE
2 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons baking
1 cup sugar
powder
1 cup thick sour cream
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups sifted cake flour
Beat eggs very light, add sugar gradually and beat until
fluffy. Add cream and vanilla and beat. Sift dry ingredients
together 3 times and add to egg mixture, beating until smooth.
Bake in a square pan (8-inch) lined with waxed paper, in a
moderate oven (350°F.) about 35 minutes.
PRUNE AND APRICOT UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE
1/4 cup butter
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 egg, beaten
1/2 teaspoon lemon rind
1 cup milk
Stewed apricot halves
2 1/4 cups flour
Stewed prune halves
4 teaspoons baking powder
5 tablespoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cream butter and brown sugar; add lemon rind; spread on
bottom of cake pan 8" by 2". Arrange apricot and prune halves
to form design on top of sugar mixture. Cream shortening, add
sugar slowly, then egg; beat well. Add milk alternately with
flour, baking powder and salt sifted together. Mix thoroughly.
Pour batter carefully over fruit in pan; bake 50 minutes at
350° F. Turn onto serving platter, upside down.
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
473
soft filling should not be used for a cake that is to be kept any
considerable time before it is eaten because the filling will soak
into the cake and make it soggy. Sometimes the shape of a loaf
cake makes it desirable to put the frosting on the bottom crust.
The frosting may extend over the top of a cake only or may
be spread over the sides. A well-made boiled frosting should
be soft, but not soft enough to run. A frosting may be put on
with a very smooth surface, may be left rough, or may be
scored in ridges or designs.
Fillings
APPLE FILLING
2 apples
1 lemon
1 cup sugar
Pare two large, sour apples and grate them into a saucepan;
add the juice and grated rind of the lemon, and the sugar.
Cook for five minutes, stirring constantly. Cool before spread-
ing on cake.
CARAMEL FILLING
1 1/2 cups brown sugar
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon butter
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
2 teaspoons corn-starch
Cook the sugar, corn-starch, milk and butter together in a
double boiler until thick. Remove from the fire and beat
vigorously until the mixture is stiff. Add flavoring. Cool be-
fore spreading on cake.
CHOCOLATE FILLING
No. 1.
1 1/2 squares chocolate
1 egg-yolk
1/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt the chocolate over hot water, in a double boiler; add the
milk, and cook together, stirring until the mixture is thick
and creamy. Add sugar and beaten egg-yolk, stir until smooth
and cook five minutes. Add the butter. Beat well. Remove
from heat and add flavoring. Cool before spreading on cake.
474
No. 2.
1 1/2 squares chocolate
1 cup powdered sugar
1/3 cup cream
1/2 teaspoon butter
1 egg-yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Melt the chocolate over hot water, in a double boiler. Mix
the cream and beaten yolk and add gradually, then the butter.
Stir in the sugar and cook until thick. Remove from fire.
Add flavoring. Cool before spreading on cake.
No. 1.
COCONUT FILLING
1 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup cold water
3 egg-whites
1/2 cup boiling water
1 1/2 cups moist coconut
Soak gelatin in the cold water until soft; then dissolve it in
the boiling water. Add sugar and stir until it is dissolved.
Allow gelatin to cool partly. When it begins to set, beat the
egg-whites until stiff and beat in the gelatin. Fold in the
coconut and spread upon the layers.
No. 2.
1 1/2 cups moist coconut
4 tablespoons confectioners'
2 egg-whites
sugar
Beat the egg-whites stiff and add the sugar and coconut
gradually. Spread the mixture thickly over the cake. If you
like, sprinkle the surface with dry shredded coconut.
MARTHA WASHINGTON FILLING
1 1/2 cups milk
1/4 cup cold water
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup rum, brandy or whisky
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup candied cherries, chopped
3 egg yolks
1/2 cup citron, chopped
2 tablespoons gelatin
1 cup whipped cream
Scald milk. Add sugar and flour to beaten egg yolks. Add to
scalded milk and cook over hot water until eggs are done. Re-
move from heat. Add gelatin which has been soaked in the cold
water. Chill. Add liquor, beat with rotary beater and chill again.
Fold the fruit and cream into the mixture. Pile between layers
of sponge cake. Top with whipped cream.
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
475
CHOCOLATE-Use 2 squares bitter chocolate, melted over hot
water, omit liquor, add 1/8 teaspoon salt, dash cinnamon and
increase sugar to 1 1/2 cups.
COFFEE-Scald milk with two tablespoons ground coffee,
strain, and make same as cream filling, omitting liquor.
ORANGE-Use half orange-juice and half milk and add two
tablespoons grated orange rind to ingredients above, omitting
the liquor. If you like, add one tablespoon lemon-juice.
WHIPPED CREAM FILLING
1/2 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup cold water
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups cream
1/4 cup boiling water
Soak the gelatin in the cold water until softened. Whip the
cream in a pan set in ice-water and sift the sugar over it. Add
the vanilla. Pour the boiling water upon the gelatin and, when
it is dissolved and cooled, strain it over the whipped cream.
Then beat rapidly with a flat whip, turning the pan with the
left hand while beating with the right. Beat until the gelatin
is thoroughly blended with the cream. Set in a cool place.
When the filling is nearly stiff, spread it on the cake layers.
WHIPPED CREAM MOCHA FILLING
1/2 pint cream
1 1/2 tablespoons Mocha
2 tablespoons sugar
extract or strong coffee
Whip the cream in a bowl set in ice-water; add the extract
or coffee and the sugar. Beat well.
If the top of the cake is spread with this filling, three-fourths
cup of chopped nut-meats may be sprinkled over it.
FRUIT FILLING
1/2 pound single or mixed fruit
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Chop the fruit fine and boil in the water, if necessary, until
tender. Add sugar and cook slowly until smooth and thick.
Remove from the heat, add vanilla and cool.
476
MIXTURE FOR UPSIDE-DOWN CAKES
2 tablespoons butter
Fresh or canned fruit
4 tablespoons sugar (white, brown or maple)
In a deep cake pan or heavy skillet, melt 2 tablespoons butter.
Sprinkle 4 tablespoons sugar over bottom of pan and cover with
well-drained sour cherries (or other canned or fresh fruit). .
Pour batter or light yeast dough over this layer and bake at
425° F. for 30 minutes.
FRUIT AND NUT FILLING
1 cup chopped raisins
1 egg-white
1/2 cup chopped nuts
Currant jelly
1/2 cup shredded coconut
Mix the raisins, nuts and coconut and add them to the stiffly
beaten egg-white. Spread the layers of cake with a thin layer
of currant jelly, then with a thick layer of the filling, and put
together.
TUTTI-FRUTTI FILLING
1/4 pound seeded or seedless
Chopped walnuts
raisins
1/4 pound maraschino cherries
1/4 pound figs
1/4 pound maple sugar
1/2 pound dates
1/2 cup water
Put raisins and figs in colander over a kettle of hot water
and allow them to steam for about one hour. Then add dates,
which have been pitted, and steam for fifteen minutes longer.
Remove from steamer, add cherries, and chop all the fruit fine.
Bring the maple sugar and water to a boil and pour it over the
fruit. Mix well. When cool, spread between layers and on
top of the cake and sprinkle with chopped walnuts.
No. 1.
LEMON FILLING
2 tablespoons flour
Juice and grated rind of
3/4 cup cold water
1 lemon
1 egg-yolk
2 teaspoons butter
1/2 cup sugar
Make a smooth paste of the flour and two tablespoons of the
cold water. Cook the rest of the water, the sugar, grated
lemon-rind and butter. When the sugar is dissolved and mix-
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
477
ture boiling, stir in the flour mixture slowly. Cook until clear
and smooth, about fifteen minutes. Add lemon-juice and
beaten egg-yolk and cook two minutes. Cool before spreading
on cake.
No. 2.
3 egg-yolks
Juice and grated rind of
1 cup sugar
2 lemons
1/2 cup butter or other fat
Beat the egg-yolks until thick, add the other ingredients and
cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly, until the mixture
is thick and smooth. Cool before spreading on cake.
MAPLE CREAM FILLING
2 cups maple-sirup
1 tablespoon butter
3/4 cup milk
Salt
Cook sirup, milk, butter, and salt together to the soft-ball
stage (238° F.). Cool and beat until creamy. Use as a filling
for cakes, cream-puffs or tarts.
ORANGE FILLING
2 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon grated orange
1/4 cup granulated sugar
rind
2 eggs beaten
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1/2 cup orange-juice
Combine all ingerdients and mix well. Cook over hot water,
stirring constantly, until well thickened, about ten minutes.
Chill well before spreading on cake.
PRUNE FILLING
1/4 pound prunes
1/2 cup rhubarb-juice or
1/2 tablespoon gelatin
pineapple-juice
4 tablespoons cold water
1/2 cup whipped cream
1/2 cup sugar
Wash the prunes, soak over night in water to cover, and cook
slowly until soft. Remove pits and rub pulp through a coarse
sieve. Soak the gelatin in cold water. When soft, add it to
478
the hot prune pulp and stir until the gelatin dissolves. Add
sugar and fruit-juice. When the filling has cooled, fold in the
whipped cream.
WALNUT FILLING
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup chopped walnut-meats
2 egg-whites
Cook the sugar and water, stirring occasionally until the
sugar is dissolved. Boil without stirring until sirup will form
a thread when dropped from the tip of the spoon (234° F.).
Remove from the fire and cool while beating the egg-whites stiff,
then pour the sirup in a thin stream on the egg-whites, beating
the mixture constantly until it is thick enough to spread. Add
flavoring and nuts. Cool before spreading on cake. Chopped
nut-meats may be sprinkled over the top of the cake.
Frostings
CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING
1) egg-white 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the egg-white stiff and add the sugar gradually; con-
tinue beating until the mixture is smooth and light. Add
flavoring.
EGGLESS CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING
2 tablespoons milk or
1 cup confectioners' sugar
water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Stir the sugar gradually into the milk or water. Add
vanilla. More sugar may be added if the frosting is not thick
enough.
Any fruit-juice or flavored liquid such as strong coffee or
maple-sirup may be used instead of milk or water.
Crushed berries mixed with the sugar give a pleasing frosting.
Two tablespoons cocoa may be mixed with the sugar.
One-half square of melted chocolate may be added.
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
479
BOILED FROSTING
1 cup sugar
1, 2, or 3 egg-whites
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cook the sugar and water together, stirring until the sugar
has dissolved. Then cook without stirring. For one egg-white,
cook to 238° F.; for two egg-whites, cook to 244° F.; and for
three egg-whites, cook to 254° F. Remove from the fire and
allow it to cool while you are beating the egg-white stiff, then
pour the sirup in a thin stream over the stiff white, beating the
mixture constantly until thick enough to spread.
ORNAMENTAL OR TWICE-COOKED FROSTING
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon flavoring extract
1/2 cup water
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 egg-whites
Boil sugar and water without stirring until the sirup will
form a soft ball in cold water (234° F.) ; add very slowly to
beaten egg-whites; add flavoring and cream of tartar and beat
until smooth and stiff enough to spread. Put over boiling
water, stirring continually until icing grates slightly on bottom
of bowl.
SEVEN-MINUTE ICING
1 unbeaten egg-white
3 tablespoons cold water
7/8 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon flavoring extract
Place all the ingredients in the top of a double boiler. Place
over boiling water and beat with beater for seven minutes.
Add flavoring, beat, and spread on cake.
CHOCOLATE-Add to above one and one-half ounces melted
unsweetened chocolate two minutes before taking from fire.
COFFEE-Use cold boiled coffee in place of water.
CARAMEL FROSTING
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla or
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 egg-whites
Make a sirup of the sugar and water and cook to the soft-ball
stage (238° F.). Remove from the fire and cool while the
480
egg-whites are beaten, then pour the sirup in a thin stream on
to the stiff whites, beating the mixture constantly until thick
enough to spread. Add the flavoring.
Chopped nuts may be stirred into the frosting just before
spreading.
CHOCOLATE FROSTING
1 square chocolate
1 egg-white
3 tablespoons granulated
8
tablespoons confectioners'
sugar
sugar
1 tablespoon water
1/2 tablespoon vanilla
Cook the chocolate, granulated sugar and water together,
stirring until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Beat the white
of the egg enough to thin it, but not to make it frothy; add
the confectioners' sugar, stir until smooth and light, then add
the chocolate mixture and vanilla. Cool before spreading on
the cake.
COFFEE-BUTTER FROSTING
1 1/2 cups confectioners'
1/3 cup butter
sugar
1 tablespoon strong coffee
1 tablespoon dry cocoa
Cream the butter and add gradually the sugar and cocoa
mixed together. Beat well. Stir in the coffee. Ornamental
designs may be made by forcing the frosting through a pastry-
bag or syringe, using the various tips to produce the desired
designs.
FUDGE FROSTING
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup milk
6 marshmallows or 2 heaping
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
tablespoons marshmallow
2 squares chocolate
whip
1 tablespoon corn sirup
Put first five ingredients into a saucepan and boil to soft ball
stage (234° F.). Remove from fire and stir in the marshmal-
lows just until they dissolve. Cool and add vanilla and beat
until right consistency to spread on cake.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS,
GINGERBREAD AND
SMALL CAKES
Cookies
OOKIE doughs range from very soft to very stiff. What-
ever the degree of stiffness, a cookie dough is always easier
to handle if it is allowed to stand for a time (ten to thirty
minutes) in a cold place before it is rolled. This allows the
moisture to be thoroughly absorbed and hardens the fat, and
both of these conditions tend to prevent the dough from being
sticky even though it is soft.
MATERIALS USED IN Cookies-Butter or any other shorten-
ing preferred may be used in cookies. See Index for materials
used in cake making.
SOFT DOUGHS may be dropped from a spoon on to a baking-
sheet or may be rolled and shaped with a cutter, a knife or a
pastry wheel. They are more difficult to roll out than stiff
doughs, and some practise is necessary to obtain perfect results
in manipulating them in this way.
STIFF DOUGHS are usually rolled out and shaped by cutting.
Sometimes they are made into small balls and flattened by
pressure from the hand, a broad knife or a rolling-pin.
Rolling and Cutting Cookies
IN ROLLING ANY DOUGH, take out on the lightly floured
board only as much as can be handled easily. Flour the rolling-
pin and use only as much pressure as is necessary to spread the
dough out into a sheet of the desired thickness. If the dough
is too soft to be rolled, more flour may be worked in, but the
texture of the finished cookie will be harder in proportion to
the amount of flour added.
DIP THE CUTTER, knife or wheel in flour, and cut the shapes
as close together as possible. Lift the cookies on a broad knife
or spatula and lay them on a greased baking-sheet, allowing a
little space between for possible spreading.
483
484
SAVE ALL THE TRIMMINGS for the last rolling. The last
cookies will not be of the same texture as the first because of
the extra flour which will be worked into the dough in the
process of mixing the trimmings into a mass to be rolled again.
FROSTED DELIGHTS
1/2 cup shortening
1 1/2 cups pastry or cake flour
1 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cream shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Add beat-
en eggs and sifted dry ingredients. Add vanilla and mix well.
Spread the batter onto a baking sheet as thinly as possible and
frost with the following:
Remove lumps from 1 cup brown sugar and fold into 1 stiff-
ly beaten egg white. Spread onto cookie batter, sprinkle with 1
cup chopped nuts and bake in moderate oven (325° F.) 30
minutes. Cut in squares. Makes 24 to 36.
SUGAR COOKIES
2/3 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup milk
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cream the shortening and mix well with the sugar, add the
beaten egg, then the flour, baking-powder and salt sifted to-
gether, alternating with the milk. Roll and cut in any desired
shape. Sprinkle with sugar before baking. Bake in a moderate
oven (350°-375° F., 10-12 minutes).
RICH COOKIES
1/2 cup shortening
3/4 cup flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 egg well beaten
Raisins, nuts or citron
Cream the shortening, add sugar gradually, egg, flour, and
vanilla. Drop from tip of spoon in small portions on buttered
sheet two inches apart. Spread thin with a knife first dipped
in cold water and bake quickly at 375° F. Put four Sultana
raisins on each cookie, almonds blanched and cut in strips, or
citron cut in small pieces.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
485
SAND TARTS
1/2 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1 egg
Nuts or raisins
1 3/4 cups flour
Cream shortening, add sugar slowly, then the unbeaten egg.
Sift in the flour and baking-powder, and add more flour if neces-
sary to make a stiff dough. Roll out very thin. Cut with a
doughnut cutter. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, and, if
desired, decorate with nuts or fruit. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°-375° F., 10-12 minutes).
CARAWAY COOKIES
1/2 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1/4 cup milk
2 cups flour
1 1/2 tablespoons caraway seeds
Cream the shortening with the sugar; add beaten egg. Mix
and sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt, and add alternately
with the milk to the first mixture. Add caraway seeds. Toss
on lightly floured board. Roll out about one-half inch thick
and cut in fancy shapes. Place on greased baking-sheet and
bake in moderate oven (350° F.).
ICEBOX COOKIES
3/4 cup butter
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup other shortening
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups medium brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
4 eggs
5 cups flour
Cream the shortenings together and with the sugar. Add
the well-beaten eggs and beat well. Sift all the dry ingredients
together and add to the first mixture. Pack the dough into a
butter carton, or form into roll. Wrap in wax paper and put
in the coldest part of the refrigerator for several hours. Slice
as thin as possible with a very sharp knife, place on a greased
baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven
(375° F.). A part of the mixture may be baked and the re-
mainder kept in the refrigerator for later use.
486
LEMON WAFERS
1 cup shortening
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
2 cups sugar
Flour
3 eggs
Cream the shortening, add the sugar, the well-beaten eggs,
and the lemon-juice. Stir in only enough flour to make as
soft a dough as can be rolled. Roll very thin and shape with a
cutter. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-375° F., 10-12 min-
utes).
FILLED COOKIES
1 cup sugar
3 cups flour
2/3 cup shortening
3 teaspoons baking-powder
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix ingredients in order given, sifting the flour with the
baking-powder and salt before adding it. Roll thin, cut, and
put in greased pans. Place a teaspoon of filling on each, not
allowing it to spread to the edge, place another cookie on top,
press down the edges, and bake in shallow pans in a quick oven
(400°-425° F., 10-15 minutes).
FILLING-
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup chopped raisins, dates,
1 tablespoon flour
figs, prunes, apricots or
1/2 cup water
marmalade
Mix sugar and flour together, add to the other ingredients,
and cook until thick, stirring constantly.
BROWN SUGAR COOKIES
2 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup melted shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
3 eggs
Flour to mix stiff
1/4 cup milk
Mix ingredients in order given. Add just enough flour to
roll. Cut into shapes as desired. Sprinkle with brown sugar,
and bake in a moderate oven (350°-375° F., 10-12 minutes).
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
487
CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES
2 squares chocolate
1 egg
1/2 cup shortening
2 cups flour
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup sweet milk
1/2 teaspoon soda
Melt the chocolate and add to the melted shortening. Add
sugar, egg and milk, then the soda and flour sifted together.
Drop by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a moderate
oven (375°-400° F., 12-15 minutes). Frost, if desired.
BROWNIES
2 squares chocolate
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 cup flour
1 cup white sugar
1/2 cup nuts
1 egg
Melt chocolate and add it to the melted shortening. Add
sugar, egg, salt and flour and chopped nuts. Pour into greased
baking-pans, and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.)
about twenty minutes. They will look half baked, but mark
off in squares or strips when you take them from the oven, and
they will harden as they cool. Remove from the pans when
cool. Serve with afternoon tea. These resemble fudge in taste
and appearance.
NUT COOKIES
1/4 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 eggs
1 tablespoon milk
1 cup flour
1 cup chopped nuts
1 teaspoon vanilla or almond
Cream shortening and sugar, add eggs well beaten. Sift dry
ingredients together and add alternately with milk. Stir in nuts
and flavoring and mix well. Drop from teaspoon on a greased
baking-sheet and place a nut on top of each. Bake in a moderate
oven (375°-400° F., 12-15 minutes). This makes about three
dozen cookies.
488
CRISP GINGER COOKIES
2/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons ginger
1 cup molasses
1/4 cup vinegar
1 cup shortening
Flour to mold
1 teaspoon soda
Mix sugar, molasses and vinegar. Add melted shortening.
Sift soda and ginger with one cup of flour and add mixture.
Add enough flour to roll very thin. Bake in a moderate oven
(375° F.) watching carefully; as ginger cookies burn rather
easily.
PEANUT COOKIES
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup brown sugar
2 cups flour
2 eggs
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1/4 cup milk
1 cup chopped peanuts
Melt shortening; add brown sugar, eggs and milk. Add sifted
salt, flour and baking-powder, and chopped peanuts. Drop by
teaspoonfuls on greased pans, an inch or two apart. Place a
half peanut on each and bake in a quick oven (400° F.). .
SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES
1 cup shortening
2 teaspoons soda
2/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon ginger
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup sour milk
2 1/2 cups flour
Cream the shortening and the sugar and add the molasses and
milk. Mix well and add dry ingredients mixed and sifted to-
gether. Mix thoroughly. Roll the dough thin and cut in
rounds. Chilling the dough before rolling makes it easier to
handle. Bake in greased sheet in moderate hot oven (375° F.).
GINGER SNAPS
1 cup molasses
3 cups flour
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ginger
Heat the molasses and shortening. Mix and sift the dry in- -
gredients and add to first mixture. Thoroughly chill, toss on
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
489
lightly floured board, and roll out very thin. Cut as desired.
The bowl containing the remaining dough must be kept in a
cool place or it will be necessary to add more flour. Excess
flour will make the cookies hard and unattractive. Put on
greased baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.,
8-10 minutes).
SOUR MILK JUMBLES
1 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 cup sour milk
1/2 nutmeg, grated
6 cups flour
Cream the shortening with the sugar and add the eggs, well
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the
sugar and shortening alternately with the milk. Roll out in
a thick sheet and cut with a doughnut cutter. Bake in a moder-
ate hot oven (375° F.).
RAISIN ROCKS
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon ginger
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups molasses
Flour
1 cup seeded raisins
Put the shortening, sugar, molasses, ginger and salt into a
saucepan together. Stir the mixture until it boils; then boil
it five minutes. Pour into a bowl and stir in flour and soda
sifted together until it is just stiff enough to drop from a spoon.
Add the raisins and drop by spoonfuls on to a greased shallow
pan. Bake the rocks in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.).
MAPLE-SUGAR ROCKS
1 cup shortening
3 eggs
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 1/2 cups maple sugar
1 cup walnuts
2 1/2 cups flour
Melt shortening, add crushed maple sugar, eggs, and cinna-
mon. Mix together and add chopped nuts and flour. Drop
by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a moderate oven
(375°-400° F.).
490
HERMITS
/2 cup shortening
1 tablespoon molasses
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon each of various
2 eggs
desired spices
2 tablespoons milk
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup chopped raisins
Flour
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually. Add eggs, molasses,
milk and raisins. Sift baking-powder and spices with one cup
of flour, and mix all thoroughly. Add enough flour to make
quite a stiff dough, and roll. Bake in a moderate oven (375°
400° F.).
HONEY HERMITS
1 1/2 cups strained honey
1 cup chopped raisins
1/3 cup shortening
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 eggs
1/2, teaspoon cloves
1/2 cup milk
3 1/2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons baking-powder
Mix strained honey and melted shortening. Add eggs, milk,
salt and raisins. Sift cinnamon, cloves, and baking-powder with
the flour. Beat well, and drop on a greased pan. Bake in a
moderate oven (375°-400° F.) until brown.
HONEY GINGERNUTS
1 cup strained honey
1 egg
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon ginger
1 cup melted shortening
1 cup chopped nuts
2 teaspoons baking-powder
Flour
Mix honey, sugar, melted shortening and beaten egg. Add
chopped nuts, then baking-powder and ginger sifted with one
cup of flour. Add more flour to make a batter of the right
consistency to drop from a spoon on to a greased pan. Bake
in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.).
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
491
ROLLED OATS COOKIES
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup molasses
2 cups flour
1 cup shortening
1 cup chopped raisins sprin-
2 eggs
kled with 2 tablespoon<
1/4 cup sweet milk
flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 cups rolled oats
1 teaspoon ground cloves
Mix ingredients in the order given. Melt the shortening be-
fore adding it, and sift the soda and spices with the flour. Drop
by teaspoonfuls on greased pans and bake in a moderate oven
(375°-400° F.).
Doughnuts, Crullers and Sweet Fritters
SWEET MILK-
DOUGHNUTS
2 tablespoons shortening
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1 cup milk
Flour
3 teaspoons baking-powder
Beat the eggs till very light, add the sugar and when foamy
add the melted shortening. Sift the baking-powder, salt and
nutmeg with one cup of flour and stir into first mixture, alter-
nating with the milk. Add the lemon flavoring and just enough
flour to make a soft dough which can be handled. Roll out
three-fourths inch thick on a lightly floured board. A soft
dough makes light, tender doughnuts when cooked. Fry in
deep fat (360°-370° F.) and drain on unglazed paper. If
you have no thermometer test the fat for temperature as di-
rected on page 26.
SOUR MILK-
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking-powder
2 tablespoons sour cream
1/2 teaspoon salt
or shortening
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup sour milk
4 1/2 cups flour (more or less)
1/2 teaspoon soda
Mix the sugar with the cream and add the beaten eggs and
sour milk. Sift the other dry ingredients with one cup of flour
492
and add to the first mixture. Add additional flour to make a
dough just stiff enough to handle. Toss on a floured board, roll
out, and cut. Fry in deep fat (360°-370° F.). If you have
no thermometer, test temperature of fat as directed on page 26.
Drain on unglazed paper. When cold, roll in powdered sugar.
RAISED- (The recipe for raised doughnuts is given on page
114.)
CRULLERS
1/4 cup shortening
3 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
Flour
Cream the shortening. Add sugar; then the well-beaten eggs.
Sift the baking-powder, nutmeg, and salt with one cup of flour
and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add
additional flour to make a dough stiff enough to handle. Toss
on floured board, roll one-half inch thick and cut into strips.
Twist and fry in deep fat 3300-370° F.). If you have no
thermometer, test temperature of fat as directed on page 26.
Drain on unglazed paper and when cold roll in powdered sugar.
This recipe makes about three dozen crullers.
FRITTER BATTER
1 1/2 cups flour
2/3 cup milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
(for sweet fritters only)
1 egg
Sift dry ingredients, add egg, well beaten, and milk. The
batter should be just thick enough to coat the article it is in-
tended to cover. If it is too thin, add more flour; if too thick,
add more liquid.
APPLE FRITTERS
1 cup milk
2 cups flour
2 eggs
1 tablespoon baking-powder
1 teaspoon sugar
Apples
Salt
To the milk add the well-beaten egg-yolks and the sugar,
then the flour mixed and sifted with the baking-powder and
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
493
the salt. Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Add sliced
sour apples, being careful to get the batter all over them. Drop
by spoonfuls into deep fat (360°-370° F.) and fry two to three
minutes. Serve with powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
BANANA FRITTERS
6 bananas
3 tablespoons orange-juice
2 tablespoons sugar
Fritter batter
Peel bananas, cut each in two and split each half. Place the
pieces in a bowl with sugar and orange-juice and let them stand
for one hour. Drain the fruit, dip in batter and fry in deep
fat (360°-370° F.) from two to three minutes. Serve with
powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
PEACH FRITTERS
Peaches
Fritter batter
Powdered sugar
Peel the peaches, split them in two, remove the stones, sprinkle
powdered sugar over them, dip each piece into fritter batter
and fry two to three minutes in deep fat 3300-370° F.).
Serve with powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
RASPBERRY FRITTERS
1 cup flour
2 eggs
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 to 3 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup raspberries
2 tablespoons sugar
Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add sugar,
egg-yolks and water. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg-whites and
the raspberries leaving the fruit as nearly whole as possible.
The amount of water may vary somewhat. The batter should
be thin enough to fold in the fruit, but thick enough to hold
together well; otherwise, the fruit in cooking will soften it
too much.
Drop the fritter mixture from a tablespoon into deep fat
(360°-370° F.) and fry until brown, turning once. Serve
with powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
494
Gingerbread and Small Cakes
GINGERBREAD
SUGAR AND MOLASSES-
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup flour
1/2 cup melted shortening
1 teaspoon ginger
1/2 cup sour milk
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 egg
Nutmeg
Mix ingredients in order given, sifting the soda with the flour
before adding it. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-375° F.)
in a greased shallow pan or in muffin-tins. Care must be taken
to prevent burning.
Gingerbread makes a delicious dessert served with whipped
cream.
SOFT MOLASSES-
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses
1 tablespoon ginger
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 cup sour milk
1 egg
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda
Melt the shortening; add the molasses, vinegar, and beaten
egg. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately with
the milk. Pour into a greased pan and bake thirty to forty
minutes.in a moderate oven (350°-375° F.). Batter should be
just thin enough so that the track left by the spoon in stirring
disappears at once.
HOT WATER-
1/2 cup shortening
1 1/2 teaspoons ginger
1/2 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 cups flour
Melt the shortening in the boiling water. Add molasses. Sift
the dry ingredients together and add them to the mixture. Beat
vigorously. Put in a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven
(350°-375° F.) thirty to forty minutes.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
495
NUT CAKES
2 eggs
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon shortening
1 cup flour
1/2 cup chopped nut-meats
Beat the eggs slightly and add the molasses and sugar. Mix
and sift the flour, baking-powder and salt, and stir them into
the first mixture. Add melted shortening and nuts, and half
fill shallow greased molds with the mixture. Place a nut-meat
in the center of each. Bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) for
twenty-five minutes.
TEA CAKES
2
tablespoons melted shorten-
1 cup milk
ing
3 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups flour
1 egg
1 cup chopped nuts
Cream the shortening with the sugar; add the beaten egg;
then add the milk alternately with the sifted ingredients. Add
the floured nuts last. Bake in greased muffin-pans in a moderate
oven (375° F.). Split each cake, butter it, and sprinkle with
sugar and cinnamon or with grated maple sugar and chopped
nuts. Serve hot with afternoon tea.
LITTLE CHOCOLATE CAKES
1/4 cup shortening
2 squares melted chocolate
1 cup sugar
1 cup flour
1/2 cup milk
1 teaspoon baking-powder
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream the shortening, add the sugar slowly, then the beaten
egg-yolks. Melt the chocolate and add. Add flour and baking-
powder sifted together, alternating with milk, then add vanilla
and fold in stiffly beaten egg-whites. Bake in greased muffin-
pans in a moderate oven (375° F.).
496
MOCHA TORTE
4 eggs
1/2 cup flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon melted butter
1 teaspoon baking-powder
1 cup ground nuts
1/2 teaspoon salt
Separate the eggs and add sugar to the yolks, beating until
creamy. Beat in the butter and add the flour sifted with the
baking-powder and salt. Add vanilla. Beat the whites of the
eggs, then add the ground nuts, stirring them into the first
mixture. Bake in two layers for fifteen minutes in a moderate
oven (350° F.).
FILLING-
1/2 pint cream
1 tablespoon confectioners'
1 tablespoon essence of coffee
sugar
Beat the cream until it is stiff enough to hold its shape, add
the coffee and sugar and put the filling between and on top
of the layers. Use a pastry tube to make it decorative.
PETITS FOURS
4 eggs
1 cup flour
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder
3 tablespoons cold water
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 tablespoons corn-starch
Flavoring
To the beaten yolks of the eggs, add sugar and cold water.
Sift the corn-starch with the flour, baking-powder and salt.
Add to first mixture. Beat well and add the stiffly beaten whites
of the eggs and any flavoring desired. Bake for one-half hour
in a moderate oven (375° F.) in shallow pans. When cool,
cut in small circles, split, scoop out a little of the crumb from
the center of each and fill cavities with whipped cream, custard,
or any preferred filling. Press together in pairs, dip in melted
fondant, decorate with nuts, glacé fruits, and so forth, and place
each little cake in a paper case.
HALLOWE'EN CAKES
Cover the bottom of individual cake-tins with any good plain
cake batter, place a prepared emblem in the center of each and
cover with batter, filling tins not more than two-thirds full.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
499
MERINGUES AND KISSES
2 egg-whites
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or 1 table-
1/2 to 5/8 cup powdered sugar
spoon lemon-juice
Pinch of salt
Beat the egg-whites stiff, adding the salt. Add two-thirds of
the sugar gradually, beating constantly, and fold the rest care-
fully into the mixture. Heap in rounds or press through a
pastry bag on to a wet board covered with an ungreased paper.
Bake on the board in a very slow oven (250°-300° F.) from
forty to sixty minutes. The kisses should be very light brown
and quite dry. If they adhere to the paper, moisten the other
side of the paper by placing it on a wet cloth, and they will slip
off easily.
The smaller shapes or kisses may be stuck together in pairs
with a little white of egg. The meringues, which are usually
made larger, may be scooped out and filled with ice-cream or
whipped cream. Filled with ice-cream, they are known as
meringues glacées.
COCONUT KISSES
4 egg-whites
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1/2 pound powdered sugar
Moist coconut
Beat the egg-whites stiff, add sugar and beat until light and
white, then add the lemon extract, and enough coconut to make
it as thick as can be easily stirred with a spoon. Drop on greased
paper and bake in a slow oven (250°-300° F.).
KORNETTES
1 egg-white
3/4 cup chopped pop-corn
1/3 cup light brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the white of the egg very stiff and, still beating, mix in
the sugar. Melt the shortening and into this stir the chopped
pop-corn, salt and vanilla. Fold the two mixtures together and
drop by spoonfuls on a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a slow
oven (250°-300° F.).
500
RAISIN NUT DELIGHTS
3 egg-whites
1/2 cup broken pecans
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup seeded raisins
Beat the egg-whites until they are stiff enough to hold their
shape, then beat in the sugar gradually. Fold in the nuts and
raisins and drop from a spoon on to the baking-pan. Bake in
a slow oven (250°-300° F.).
ALMOND-
MACAROONS
1/2 pound sweet almonds
1/2 pound powdered sugar
2 egg-whites
Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste; add the
sugar and stiffly beaten egg-whites. Work the whole together
with the back of a spoon, then roll the mixture in the hands to
form balls about the size of a nutmeg. Lay them on a paper
at least an inch apart, and bake in a slow oven (250°-300° F.)
until light brown.
COCONUT-
1 egg-white
1/3 cup condensed milk
1 1/4 cups moist coconut
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the egg-white until stiff, then fold it into the mixture
of coconut and condensed milk. Add flavoring. Drop by
spoonfuls on a greased baking-sheet and shape into cakes. Bake
in a slow oven (250°-300° F.) until lightly browned.
BROWN SUGAR-
1 egg-white
1 cup chopped salted nuts
1 cup brown sugar
Beat the sugar into the stiffly beaten egg-white, and add the
nuts. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased pan and bake in a slow
oven (250°-300° F.).
NUT OATMEAL-
1 egg
1/3 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 teaspoons melted shortening
2/3 cup rolled oats
Beat egg until very light, add sugar slowly, beating con-
stantly. Add flavoring, oats, salt, nuts and melted shortening.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
50I
Drop from teaspoon on greased baking-sheet and bake in a slow
oven (350° F.) until browned (about 10 minutes). Remove
from pan while warm. This makes about eighteen macaroons.
LACE CAKES
2 eggs
1 tablespoon butter or other
1/2 cup brown sugar
shortening
1 cup rolled oats
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
Beat the eggs, add the sugar and, when these are well mixed,
add the oats and salt. Melt the shortening and stir into the
mixture. Add vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased bak-
ing-sheet and spread very thin with the back of the spoon.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) ten to twelve min-
utes.
BUTTERSCOTCH STICKS
1/4 cup butter
1 cup sifted flour
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 teaspoon baking-powder
1/4 cup broken pecan meats
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt butter in a saucepan, add sugar and when well blended
remove from the fire and cool, in the saucepan, until luke-
warm. Add unbeaten egg to mixture and beat well. Mix
flour, salt and baking-powder, and add to the sugar mixture;
then add the nut meats and vanilla. Spread the mixture in a
shallow pan lined with plain paper which has been greased.
Bake 30 minutes in a hot oven (400°-450° F.). While hot,
cut into strips an inch wide and four inches long. This recipe
makes about two dozen.
BRAN COCONUT DROPS
1 cup cooking bran
2 egg-whites
1/2 cup coconut
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 cup sugar
Beat the egg-whites, and add the other ingredients. Drop
from a teaspoon on a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a mod-
erate oven (400° F.) until browned.
506
brown sugar, chocolate or molasses. Lemon extract or lemon- -
juice is good in a white-sugar fudge from which the chocolate
is
omitted.
FUDGE-COVERED DATES
Cut dates in half, lengthwise; remove the pits and lay the
halves at intervals on a greased dish. Make fudge according to
any fudge recipe and drop a teaspoonful on each half date. This
must be done quickly, to avoid letting the fudge harden in the
pan. The hardening may be delayed by standing the pan in a
larger one containing hot water.
PANOCHA
3 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup milk
1 cup nut-meats
2 tablespoons butter
Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan and cook to the soft-
ball stage, or 238° F. Remove from the fire, add butter and
vanilla, and cool without stirring. When it is lukewarm, beat
until it is creamy. Stir in the broken nut-meats. Hickory
nuts, walnuts or pecans are especially nice. Pour into a buttered
pan and when it hardens mark into squares.
MAPLE PRALINES
2 cups sugar
1 cup maple sirup
2/3 cup milk
2 cups pecan-meats
Boil the sugar, milk and maple sirup until the mixture
reaches the soft-ball stage (238° F.). Remove from the fire
and cool. When it is lukewarm, beat until it is smooth and
creamy. Add any kind of broken nut-meats and drop on
buttered paper from the tip of a spoon, making little mounds.
FONDANT
2 cups granulated sugar
2 tablespoons corn sirup or
1 cup water
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Put the sugar, corn sirup and water in a saucepan and heat
slowly. Do not let it begin to boil until the sugar is dissolved.
Wash down the sides of the pan with a fork wrapped in a damp
CANDIES
509
VANILLA-
CARAMELS
2 cups sugar
4 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup corn sirup
1 cup cream or condensed
1/2 cup milk
milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cook the ingredients, except the vanilla; to the stiff-ball
stage, or 246° F. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla and
pour into a buttered pan. When it is cold, turn it out of the
pan and cut it into squares.
CHOCOLATE-Use the same ingredients as for vanilla cara-
mels but reduce the cream or condensed milk to one-half cup
and add three squares of chocolate. Break the chocolate in
small pieces, add to the other ingredients and proceed as for
vanilla caramels.
MOLASSES TAFFY
2 cups molasses
4 tablespoons butter or other
1 cup granulated sugar
fat
3/4 cup water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon soda
Cook the molasses, sugar and water slowly to the hard-ball
stage (260° F.) stirring during the latter part of the cooking
to prevent its burning. Remove from the fire, add the fat,
soda and vanilla and stir enough to mix. Pour into a greased
pan and, when cool enough to handle, pull it until it becomes
light in color. Stretch it into a long rope and cut with scissors
into small pieces.
WHITE TAFFY
2 cups granulated sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons vinegar
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla
1 teaspoon glycerin
extract
Boil the sugar, water, glycerin and vinegar to the hard-ball
stage (260° F.). Add flavoring. Pour on to a greased platter.
When cool enough to handle, pull until very white, stretch into
a long rope, and cut into short pieces.
510
NOUGAT
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup corn sirup
1 1/2 cups nut-meats
1 cup water
1/2 cup candied cherries
4 egg-whites
Boil together half of the sugar, half of the water and half of
the corn sirup to the stiff-ball stage (246°-250° F.). Remove
the sirup from the fire and pour it slowly over the well-beaten
whites and continue beating until it is cool. While beating,
cook the remaining half of the ingredients to the stiff-ball stage.
Remove and add at once to the first mixture, beating while
adding. When cool, add the vanilla, nut-meats and candied
cherries and pour into buttered pans. Smooth over the surface
and let it stand over night before cutting. In the morning cut
and wrap in waxed paper.
BUTTERSCOTCH
1 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon
1/4 cup light corn sirup
extract
1 cup water
Put sugar, sirup and water into a saucepan and set over
direct heat. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then cook without
stirring to the stiff ball stage (250° F.). Add fat and cook to
the medium crack stage (280° F.), for soft butterscotch, or to
the hard crack stage (300° F.) for brittle candy. Remove from
fire, add the flavoring and pour on a greased slab. Mark while
still warm and when cold break into pieces.
MAPLE SCOTCH
1 cup maple sugar
1 teaspoon vinegar
1/2 cup water
4 tablespoons butter
Boil together the maple sugar, water and vinegar to the stiff-
ball stage (246° F.). Then add the butter and cook to the
medium-crack stage (280° F.). Turn into a well-buttered
pan. Mark while still warm, and when cold break into pieces.
CANDIES
511
No. 1.
POP-CORN BALLS
3 quarts popped corn
1 cup water
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup white corn sirup
1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla
Discard all imperfect kernels and put the popped corn into
a large pan. Cook sugar, sirup and water to the medium-crack
stage (280° F.). Add flavoring and salt. Pour over the
corn, stirring with a spoon so that all kernels will be evenly
coated. Shape the corn into balls, lay on waxed paper, and wrap
in waxed paper.
No. 2.
3 quarts popped corn
2/3 cup water
1 cup honey
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Proceed as for No. 1.
MAPLE NUT BRITTLE
I cup light-brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup maple sugar
1 cup broken nut-meats
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
Boil the sugar and water to the stiff-ball stage (246° F.).
Then add the fat and cook to the brittle stage (290°-300° F.).
Add the vanilla and salt and pour over the nut-meats, which
have been placed on a buttered pan. When cold, break into
pieces.
PEANUT BRITTLE
2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 pint chopped peanuts
Put the sugar into an iron frying-pan and heat slowly; stirring
constantly, until the sugar is melted and turns a light brown
color (slightly above 300 F.). Spread the chopped peanuts
in a buttered tin, sprinkle them with the salt, warm the tin
slightly and pour the melted sugar over the peanuts.
512
TURKISH DELIGHT
3 tablespoons gelatin
1/2 cup hot water
2 cups sugar
Grated rind and juice of
1/2 cup cold water
1 lemon
Grated rind and juice of
Red or green coloring
1 orange
Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Put the sugar and hot
water in a saucepan. When it reaches the boiling-point, add
the gelatin and simmer twenty minutes. Add color and the
flavorings; strain into a bread-pan which has been rinsed with
cold water. The mixture should be from one-half to one inch
in depth.
When it is cold, turn it on to a board. Cut into cubes or
other shapes and roll in confectioners' sugar.
If you prefer other flavors, such as peppermint, wintergreen
and clove, omit the fruit juice and rind, add one-half cup of
water, and flavor with a few drops of oil of peppermint, oil
of wintergreen, oil of cloves, etc.
COCONUT CONES
2 cups sugar
3 egg-whites
2/3 cup water
2 cups moist coconut
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Boil the sugar and water together to the soft-ball stage (238°
F.). Add the vanilla and pour it slowly over the stiffly beaten
whites of the eggs beating constantly until light and foamy.
Stir in the coconut and drop on buttered tins by teaspoonfuls.
Shape each confection like a cone. Bake in a slow oven (300°
F.) for about twenty minutes.
MARZIPAN
2 egg-whites
1 cup confectioners' sugar,
1 cup almond paste
more or less
1/2 teaspoon lemon or vanilla
Beat the egg-whites and mix with the almond paste. Add
the flavoring and enough sugar to make the mixture stiff enough
to handle. After it has stood over night, it may be molded into
small shapes of fruits or vegetables such as pears, apples or car-
rots and colored with vegetable colors, or it may be cut into
CANDIES
513
small pieces and dipped in chocolate or other coating, or used
as the center for candied cherries, dates, prunes, etc.
The almond paste may be bought at a confectioner's, or the
almonds may be blanched and pounded. Two and two-thirds
cups shelled almonds make one cup of paste.
STUFFED SPICED PRUNES
1/2 pound prunes
1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 cup corn sirup
5 allspice berries
1/8 cup water
1/8 teaspoon maple flavoring
3 to 6 cloves
Chopped nut-meats
Soak the prunes over night, after washing them thoroughly.
Drain off the water; add the sugar, sirup, water and spices and
simmer slowly until the sirup is all absorbed by the prunes.
Cut a slit along one side of each prune, slip out the stone and
fill the cavities with chopped nut-meats moistened with a little
sirup or with cream. Roll in confectioners' sugar.
TUTTI-FRUTTI CANDY
1 pound raisins
1 pound figs
3/4 pound walnut-meats
1/2 pound prunes
1 pound dates
Confectioners' sugar
Soak the prunes over night. Steam until they are soft and
remove stones. Wash the figs, and steam them twenty min-
utes. Wash the dates and remove the stones. Put the fruit
and nuts through a food-chopper. Put confectioners' sugar on
the board and with the hands work the fruit and nuts until
well blended. Roll to about one-quarter inch thick, using the
sugar to dredge the board and rolling-pin. Cut in any desired
shape, roll in sugar, pack in layers in a tin box, using waxed
paper between the layers.
HOLIDAY COCONUT BALLS
1/3 cup corn sirup
1/4 cup currants
1/4 teaspoon maple
1/2 cup raisins
flavoring
1 cup moist coconut
Stir the ingredients together to make a stiff loaf. Pack in a
small cake-tin. Chill in the refrigerator and roll into small
balls. Dust with confectioners' sugar.
APRICOT OR PRUNE WHIP
1 1/2 cups sweetened apricot
1/8 teaspoon salt
or prune pulp
1/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice
3 egg whites, stiffly beaten
Mix pulp, lemon juice and salt together. Beat sugar into egg
whites, fold in fruit mixture and serve garnished with chopped
nuts. If desired this mixture may be piled lightly into a buttered
baking dish and baked in a slow oven (275° F.) 30.to 45
minutes.
STEAMED FIGS
18 pulled figs
3 teaspoons confectioners'
2 tablespoons water
sugar
1 orange
3/4 cup cream
Wash the figs and cut out the stem end. Soak several hours,
or overnight. Cook in a double boiler slowly until tender.
Arrange the hot figs in individual dessert dishes around a central
small mound of orange portions which have been skinned and
sprinkled with sugar. Border with sweetened whipped cream
slightly flavored with orange juice.
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
527
CARAMEL PUDDING
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup flour
2 cups milk
2 eggs
Mix sugar and one and one-half cups of milk. Scald in double
boiler until sugar is dissolved. Mix flour with beaten egg-yolks
and the remaining half cup of milk and add to the hot milk,
stirring constantly until it thickens. Remove from fire and fold
in stiffly beaten egg-whites. Chill and serve with whipped
cream.
ORANGE FOOL
6 oranges
Sugar
3 eggs
Nutmeg
2 cups cream
Cinnamon
Squeeze and strain the juice from the oranges. Beat the eggs
and add to them the cream and the orange-juice. Sweeten to
taste. Add a sprinkle of grated nutmeg and powdered cinna-
mon, and cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until the
mixture coats the spoon. Pour into glass dishes and chill
thoroughly before serving.
PLAIN BAKED CUSTARD
2 cups scalded milk
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
4 tablespoons sugar
Scald the milk. Mix sugar, eggs, salt and flavoring and com-
bine with scalded milk. Pour into custard cups or baking-dish
set in pan of hot water and poach in a slow oven (300° F.)
until firm. A knife blade run into the center of the custard
will come out clean.
VARIATIONS OF BAKED CUSTARD
CARAMEL.
No. 1-Caramelize one-fourth cup of sugar and add to two
cups of scalded milk. Use as the liquid in a plain baked custard.
No. 2-Caramelize one-half cup of sugar. Pour into a mold
or pour a little into each of six custard cups. Before it hardens,
move the mold about so that the caramel will coat the sides.
When the caramel is hard, fill the molds with plain baked
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
53I
the crystallized ginger and the figs. Place all in a double boiler
and simmer slowly all day. The entire mass must form a soft
pulp so that the ingredients will scarcely be recognized. Soften
the gelatin in the cold water and stir into the mixture while
hot. Turn into high-stemmed glasses and serve ice cold with
whipped cream.
GRAPEFRUIT A LA ST. PATRICK
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
3/4 cup sugar
granulated gelatin
1 cup ice-water
1/2 cup cold water
2 cups grapefruit pulp and
1/2 cup boiling water
juice
Fresh mint
Maraschino cherries
Cut the grapefruit in half, crosswise, and scoop out the pulp
being careful not to cut the skins. Drop the shells into cold
water until needed. Simmer a few sprigs of fresh mint in the
boiling water until the flavor is extracted. Follow the standard
directions for making jelly. When jelly is firm, cut it into
cubes, pile the cubes in the grapefruit shells and garnish with
sprigs of mint and cherries.
MOLDED LIME FRUIT SALAD
1 package lime gelatin
1/2 cup canned white cherries
1 cup boiling water
1/4 cup red seeded grapes, cut
1 cup cold water
in fancy shapes
4 slices canned pineapple
4 halved pears
Dissolve gelatin in boiling water and add cold water. Set
aside to cool slightly. Add fruit and pour into mold which has
been rinsed out with cold water. Refrigerate to set.
GARNISH-Mix cream cheese with chopped nuts and rais-
ins; stuff pears, place in individual gelatin molds, fill with lime
gelatin and allow to congeal. Use as garnish around lime mold,
topped with pimiento cream cheese flower. Place decorated pine-
apple slices between pears. Serve with creamy eggless mayon-
naise. See page 450.
Decorating Jelly
Have the mold thoroughly chilled. Pour in a layer of jelly
about one-half inch deep. Chill. When firm, arrange a design
of fruit or nuts or both, dropping a few drops of jelly on each
532
piece to hold the design while the jelly hardens. When the jelly
holding the design in place has congealed, add enough jelly to
cover the design and let this harden. A single design may serve
or alternate layers of fruit and jelly may be arranged in this
way. Each layer must congeal before the next is added.
REFRIGERATOR CHEESE CAKE
1/2 cup melted butter
3 eggs, separated
3/4 cup sugar
2 cups cream cheese
2 cups fine zwieback
3 tablespoons lemon juice
crumbs
1 tablespoon grated
2 teaspoons cinnamon
lemon rind
2 tablespoons gelatin
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup cold water
1/2 cup whipping cream
Blend butter, 1/4 cup sugar, crumbs and cinnamon. Press 3/4
of this mixture on the bottom of a 9-inch spring form pan.
Soak gelatin in 1/2 cup cold water for 5 minutes. Cook egg-
yolks, remaining sugar (1/2 cup) and water (1/2 cup) in a
double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture coats a metal
spoon. Add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Add gradually to
cream cheese, add lemon juice, rind and salt, beat thoroughly.
Cool, when beginning to congeal, beat several minutes with
an egg beater. Whip cream and fold in with stiffly beaten egg-
whites, blend thoroughly. Pour onto crumbs. Sprinkle remain-
ing crumbs over top. Chill until firm. Serves 10 to 12.
For variety use crumbs made from graham crackers, vanilla
wafers, gingersnaps, chocolate cookies, browned dried bread
crumbs, crushed cornflakes or other suitably prepared breakfast
foods in place of zwieback.
GELATIN BLANC MANGE
1 pint milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon water
1 1/2 teaspoons granulated
gelatin
Heat the milk in the top of a double boiler. Add the gelatin
softened in the cold water. Stir constantly, adding the sugar
a little at a time. Cook over hot water for fifteen minutes
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
533
stirring frequently. Strain into molds that have been dipped
in cold water and chill. Serve with cream.
CHOCOLATE-Dissolve one square bitter chocolate, add the
milk and sugar, using one-third cup sugar, before adding the
gelatin.
CHOCOLATE CREAM
6 tablespoons cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup sugar
1 pint cream
3 tablespoons water
1 egg
Mix cocoa, sugar and water, and cook over the fire, stirring
until thick and smooth. Cool slightly and pour over stiffly
whipped cream, and beat thoroughly with a spoon. Add egg
and again beat well. Chill in refrigerator, allowing an hour
and a half or two hours for a mechanical refrigerator and longer
for an ice-cooled refrigerator.
No. 1.
VELVET CREAM
1/2 ounce (1 tablespoon)
4 tablespoons powdered
granulated gelatin
sugar
1/4 cup cold water
1 pint cream
1/4 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Follow standard directions for making the jelly. As soon as
it begins to congeal, add the cream. Flavor with vanilla. Turn
into a mold and place on ice to harden. Serve with maple
sauce.
No. 2-Use same ingredients as for preceding recipe. Whip
the cream and fold into it the dissolved gelatin and sugar mix-
ture. Mold.
SPANISH CREAM
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
1/4 teaspoon salt
granulated gelatin
2 eggs
1/2 cup cold water
2 1/4 cups cold milk
1/2 cup hot milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup sugar
Make a custard of the egg-yolks, sugar and hot milk. Add
the softened gelatin. Proceed as for standard sponge mixtures.
Mold, chill and serve with whipped cream.
534
PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
1/2 cup sugar
granulated gelatin
Salt
1/2 cup cold water
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 pint scalded milk
1 pint heavy cream
4 egg-yolks
Soak the gelatin in cold water until soft. Make a soft custard
of the milk, egg-yolks, sugar and flavoring. Stir the softened
gelatin into the hot custard. When the gelatin has dissolved,
strain and cool. Whip the cream and fold it in as the mixture
congeals.
RICE BAVARIAN
1 1/2 pints milk
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
Lemon-peel
granulated gelatin
1/2 cup rice
1/2 cup cold water
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup sugar
Strawberries
1 teaspoon flavoring
Put the milk and a few thin cuts of lemon-peel into a double
boiler. When it is hot, stir in the well-washed rice and salt.
Cook until the rice is perfectly tender. The milk should be
nearly absorbed, leaving the rice very moist. Add to the hot
cooked rice the flavoring, the sugar and the gelatin, which has
been soaked in the cold water, and mix carefully. When the
mixture is beginning to set, fold in the cream, whipped stiff.
Pour into a mold and chill. Serve with sweetened crushed
strawberries. The white mold with red sauce makes a charming
combination.
MONT BLANC
1 pound large chestnuts
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Whipped cream
Put the chestnuts into the oven for a moment, until the shell
and inner skin can be easily removed. Boil the skinned chest-
nuts in water with the salt and three tablespoons of the sugar,
until they are very tender. Add one-half cup sugar to the
water and chestnuts and let stand until thoroughly cold. Re-
move chestnuts from this sirup and run them through a potato-
ricer on to a platter, mounding it high. Save a few of the finest
whole pieces to decorate the dish. Top the mound with
a
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
535
spoonful of sweetened whipped cream, and put a border of
whipped cream around the edge of the dish, dotting it with the
whole nuts here and there.
MACAROON BISQUE
1 cup heavy cream
18 macaroons
Powdered sugar
6 maraschino cherries
Vanilla
Whip a cup of cream until stiff, sweeten with powdered
sugar and flavor lightly with vanilla. Stir in six macaroons
broken in small pieces, but not powdered. Pile in sherbet
glasses with a border of the whole macaroons and decorate with
marshmallows or maraschino cherries. This is an excellent
emergency dessert.
PINEAPPLE AMBROSIA
1 fresh pineapple or
1 cup heavy cream
1 can crushed pineapple
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 pound marshmallows
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
Shred the pineapple with a fork. Cut the marshmallows into
small pieces, using a pair of scissors. Mix the pineapple and
marshmallows and let stand on ice until thoroughly chilled.
Just before serving, whip the cream and add the sugar to it.
Add lemon-juice to the pineapple mixture and then fold in
the whipped cream. Serve immediately in individual glasses
or in a large dessert dish.
FRUIT FLUFF
1 cup powdered sugar
4 cups sliced peaches or
1 cup thick cream
apple sauce or berries
2 egg-whites
Add half the sugar to the cream, stir until the sugar is dis-
solved, and then add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Place
the sliced peaches in a dish, sprinkle them with the remainder
of the sugar, pour on the cream mixture, and serve at once.
The success of this depends upon its being thoroughly chilled
when served. The cream, egg-whites and fruit should be
chilled for at least two hours before the dish is to be prepared,
and the finished dessert should be kept in the refrigerator until
needed.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
at which a pudding is served depends some-
nature of the pudding. However, soufflés,
must be served hot because they begin to fall as soon as they are
taken from the oven; and certain others, such as the steamed
puddings and baked batters or doughs, become soggy when cold.
Some puddings may be chilled almost to the point of freez-
ing, and for these the mechanical refrigerator is very satisfac-
tory. Use the ring mold for both hot and cold puddings, unmold
on the serving plate and serve with the bowl of sauce or cream
in the center. See page 344.
Puddings that May be Served Either Hot or Cold
BREAD PUDDING
2 cups stale bread
2 eggs
1 quart milk
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup raisins if desired
Soak the bread in the milk until it is very soft, then mash
it fine. Heat together until nearly boiling. Beat the eggs until
light and add to them the sugar, salt and vanilla. When well
mixed, stir this into the bread and milk, pour the whole into
an earthenware baking-dish, set in a pan of water, and bake
in a slow oven (250°-350° F.).
CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING-Melt two squares of chocolate
over hot water and add this to the soaked bread and milk.
COCONUT PUDDING
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup moist coconut
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups milk
1 tablespoon butter or other
1 egg
fat
Soak the bread and coconut in the milk until soft, then mash
and add the sugar, salt and melted fat. Beat the white and
539
540
yolk of the egg separately; add the yolk to the mixture, then
fold in the white. Pour into a greased baking-dish, set in a
pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven (250°-300° F.).
SPICE PUDDING
1 cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups milk
1 teaspoon melted butter or
1 1/2 cups fresh bread-crumbs
other fat
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
Seed the raisins and cut them in half. Beat the egg light,
add the sugar and then the milk and pour the whole over the
crumbs. Add the spice, fat, salt and raisins, stir well, pour into
a baking-dish, set. in a pan of water, and bake until firm in a
slow oven (250°-350° F.). Serve hot or cold, with any de-
sired sauce.
QUEEN OF PUDDINGS
2 cups stale bread-crumbs
Currant jelly or plum jam
1 quart scalded milk
2 tablespoons sugar for
3 eggs
meringue
1/2 cup sugar
Soak the crumbs in the hot milk until soft; then add the egg-
yolks mixed with the sugar, pour into a baking-dish set in a
pan of water, and bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) about
an hour, or until custard is set. When cool, spread a thick layer
of
the jelly or jam over the top. Beat the egg-whites until stiff,
add the sugar gradually and beat until stiff, spread this meringue
on top of the jam and place in the oven until a delicate brown.
Serve hot or cold, with cream.
ORANGE AND RICE
Pare oranges, cut in half crosswise and remove the core. Cook
the halves, until they are tender but not broken, in a sirup made
from equal parts of sugar and water, to which a little lemon-
juice has been added.
Place around a mound of boiled rice and pour the sirup over
the whole. Serve with plain or whipped cream, or a custard
sauce. Serve hot or cold.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
54I
CREAMY RICE PUDDING
3 tablespoons rice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon or
1 quart milk
nutmeg
Wash the rice thoroughly, add the other ingredients and pour
into a greased baking-dish. Bake from one and one-half to two
hours in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) stirring several times.
The mixture should not boil.
This is the old-fashioned creamy pudding which has such a
delicious flavor because of the long slow cooking. One-half cup
of raisins may be added, if desired. Serve hot or cold.
APPLE OR OTHER FRUIT TAPIOCA
1 cup any fresh fruit, such as
has been soaked but not
apples, peaches, apricots,
cooked
sour cherries and cran-
3/4 cup granulated tapioca
berries or
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup any dried fruit which
3 cups cold water
Cook the tapioca and water in a double boiler until trans-
parent. Pare and core the apples or prepare the other fruit,
place in a baking-dish, sprinkle with sugar, pour over the sweet-
ened fruit the tapioca, cover and bake in a slow oven (250°-
350° F.) until the apples or other fruit are perfectly tender.
For the last ten minutes, remove the cover so that the surface
of the pudding may brown slightly. Serve hot or cold, with
cream.
CREAM TAPIOCA
1 1/2 tablespoons granulated
2 eggs
tapioca
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups scalded milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup sugar
Add the tapioca to the milk and cook in a double boiler until
the tapioca is transparent. Add half the sugar to the milk and
half to the salt and the egg-yolks, slightly beaten. Pour the
hot mixture slowly over the egg mixture; return to the double
boiler and cook until it thickens. Remove from the heat and
add the stiffly beaten egg-whites and the flavoring. Turn into
the serving dish and serve hot or cold.
542
WITH FRUIT-Allow the cream tapioca to cool and turn it
over sliced oranges or other cut fruit. Chill and serve.
SCALLOPED PEACHES
1 teaspoon butter or other fat
1/4 cup brown sugar
1 cup peaches
1/4 cup bread-crumbs or cake-
1 quart apples
crumbs
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup water
Grease a baking-dish with the fat. Chop the peaches and put
half of them in the bottom of the dish. Pare and quarter the
apples and lay half of them over the peaches. Sprinkle with
salt, add the other half of the peaches, and then the apples, and
sprinkle again with salt. Scatter the sugar over the top, then
the crumbs, then pour the water over all. Cover the dish and
bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) from forty-five to sixty
minutes, removing the cover after thirty minutes. Serve hot
or cold, with or without whipped cream or marshmallows.
Puddings That Should Be Served Hot
FRUIT.
SOUFFLES
1 cup fruit pulp
3 egg-whites
Sugar
Salt
Any kind of fruit, either fresh or preserved, may be used.
When canned fruit is used, drain from sirup. Rub the fruit
pulp through a sieve, add a pinch of salt, sweeten if necessary,
and heat. Fold the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs into the
hot fruit pulp. Fill a greased baking-dish or small molds three-
fourths full, set in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate
oven (375° F.) until firm. Serve at once with whipped cream
or a soft custard.
VANILLA.
1 cup scalded milk
1/3 cup sugar
4 tablespoons flour
3 eggs
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Make a sauce of the milk, flour, fat and sugar. Add the
beaten egg-yolks and flavoring. Fold in the beaten egg-whites,
pour into a greased baking-dish, set this in hot water, and bake
in a moderate oven (375° F.) until the egg-white is set. Serve
at once with lemon sauce or cream.
544
COTTAGE PUDDING
1 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup milk
3 teaspoons baking-powder
1 egg
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
Sift the flour with the baking-powder. Cream the shorten-
ing and add the sugar and salt and the egg, well beaten. Then
add the milk and flour alternately. Pour into a greased pan
and bake in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.) 35 to 45 minutes.
BLUEBERRY PUDDING
Add one cup blueberries to cottage pudding batter and bake
in muffin tins at 400' F.
FRUIT BATTER PUDDING
Place a thick layer of fruit in the bottom of a greased bak-
ing-dish and pour custard soufflé or cottage pudding batter
over it. Bake in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.) about thirty
minutes. Any fresh or canned fruit that is not too juicy may
be used, or dried fruit that has been soaked. Apricots, peaches
and blackberries are particularly delicious.
BROWN BETTY
This pudding is usually made with apples, but almost any
other fruit may be used instead of or in combination with them.
Peaches, apricots and rhubarb are especially good. Serve hot
with cream or with any preferred sauce, or without a sauce.
No. 1.
1/4 cup melted butter
1/2 cup fruit-juice or water
1 pint bread-crumbs
1/2 cup sugar or molasses
1 pint sliced apples or other
Juice and grated rind of a
fruit
lemon or orange, if desired
Cinnamon or other spices
Arrange layers of buttered crumbs and thin sliced apples in
a pudding dish. Sprinkle each layer of fruit with sugar and
a little cinnamon or other spices. Finish with a layer of crumbs
and pour fruit-juice or mixed molasses and water over the top.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
545
Cover and bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) for thirty
minutes, then remove the cover and bake forty-five minutes
longer.
No. 2.
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 cup water
3 1/2 cups chopped apples or
1 apple, washed, cored and
other fruit
sliced to form rings
1/2 cup honey
Mix the crumbs and chopped apples or other fruit and place
in a deep baking-dish. Bring the honey and water to a boil
and pour over the fruit and bread mixture. Sprinkle a few
dry crumbs on top and lay the apple rings around the edge.
Bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) as directed for No. 1.
APPLE CHARLOTTE
Slices of stale bread, 1/4 inch
Stewed tart apples, mashed
thick
and seasoned with sugar
Melted butter
and nutmeg
Chopped almonds, if desired
Line a greased mold with the bread slices, dipped into or
brushed with the melted butter. The slices should fit close
together and may even overlap. Fill the center with the stewed
apples and add chopped almonds if you wish. Cover the top
with slices of the bread, buttered, and bake in a hot oven
(400° F.) for thirty minutes. The bread should have the ap-
pearance of being sautéd and should be well browned. Turn
out on a platter and serve hot.
PEACH PUDDING
6 sliced peaches, fresh or
2 cups milk
canned, or 1/2 cup dried
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
peaches, soaked and stewed
3 eggs
1/4 cup sugar
Stale bread
1/2 teaspoon salt
Add the sugar, salt and vanilla to the milk and stir in the
eggs, well-beaten. Dip slices of stale bread into the mixture
and line a quart baking-dish with it. Arrange layers of bread
and sliced peaches to fill the dish. Pour any remaining liquid
546
over the top. Set dish in a pan of hot water and bake in a
slow oven (325°-350° F.) until firm (about 30 minutes).
Serve hot with any sauce.
ORANGE AND MACAROON PUDDING
1/3 pound almond macaroons
1/2 cup sugar
1 pint milk
2 oranges
4 eggs
Soak the macaroons in the milk. Beat the eggs and add to
them the sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Stir the
mixture carefully into the macaroons and milk and add the
juice of the oranges. Pour into a greased mold and set on a
trivet in a kettle of boiling water. Simmer steadily for an hour.
Serve hot with orange sauce.
NEW ENGLAND PANDOWDY
2 cups tart apples, pared and
2 tablespoons water
cored, or other fruit
Nutmeg or cinnamon
Sugar
Baking-powder crust
Fill a greased baking-dish half full of the fruit, sprinkle
with sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg, add the water to make
a little juice and cover with a baking-powder biscuit crust.
Bake in a hot oven (400°-450° F.) until the crust is thoroughly
baked and the fruit tender. If the crust becomes too brown
before it is cooked through, reduce the heat slightly after the
first twenty minutes. A thick crust of this kind is more easily
baked if a small opening is left in the middle. With a rolled
crust a piece may be cut out with a tiny cookie cutter. If the
crust is dropped from the spoon it may be placed around the
edge of the dish so that there is a small opening in the center.
APPLE RICE PUDDING
1 cup rice
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
2 eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
3 large apples
1/2 cup raisins
1/4 cup butter
Wash the rice and boil in salted water until soft. Drain.
Add the egg-yolks, sugar, raisins, cinnamon and salt. Cut the
apples in very small pieces and add to the rice. Beat the egg-
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
547
whites stiff and fold into the mixture. Melt the fat in a baking-
dish and stir half of it into the pudding mixture, spreading the
rest over the inside of the dish. Pour the mixture into the bak-
ing-dish and bake in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.) about
forty minutes. Serve hot.
No. 1.
INDIAN PUDDING
1 quart milk
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/3 cup corn-meal
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 egg
Place the milk in a double boiler and when it is scalding hot
add the corn-meal, moistened with cold water, and stir con-
stantly to avoid lumps. Cook for twenty minutes. Turn into
a pudding-dish and stir in the other ingredients adding the
beaten egg last. Bake two to three hours in a slow oven (250°-
350° F.) and serve hot with hard sauce or any preferred sauce.
One-half cup dates or figs may be used instead of the raisins.
No. 2.
2/3 cup corn-meal
2 eggs
1 quart hot milk
1 tablespoon shortening
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
2 cups chopped apples
Slowly add the meal, moistened with cold water, to the hot
milk, stirring constantly, and cook to a thick mush. Add the
other ingredients and mix well. Turn into a greased baking-
dish and bake in a slow oven (250°-350 F.) for two hours
and a half. Serve hot with any sauce desired.
OLD-FASHIIONED STRAWBERRY OR OTHER
FRUIT SHORTCAKE
2 cups flour
1/3 cup shortening
4 teaspoons baking-powder
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
Butter
1 tablespoon sugar
Strawberries or other fruit
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and work in the shortening
with the fingers or a knife. Gradually add enough milk to
make a soft dough, mixing with a knife. Toss the dough on
to a floured board and tap and roll to one-half inch thickness.
548
Bake in sheets for a large shortcake or cut with a biscuit cutter
or bake in muffin tins for individual shortcakes. Bake in
a
very hot oven (450°-460° F.) twelve to fifteen minutes. When
done, split into two parts, butter and put crushed sweetened
fruit between the layers and on top. Serve hot with cream.
Any fresh berries, peaches, oranges, bananas, or stewed fruits,
fresh or dried, may be used for shortcake.
FRUIT DUMPLINGS
Make a baking-powder biscuit dough, adding a little more
shortening than when making biscuit. Roll one-fourth inch
thick and cut into five-inch squares. Place a mound of fruit,
pared, cored, or whole, in the center of each square. If large
fruit is used, it should first be cooked five or ten minutes.
Sprinkle the fruit with sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg. Moisten
the edges of the dough with water or cold milk and fold so
that the corners will meet in the center. Press the edges lightly
together.
The tops may be brushed with beaten egg, melted fat or
milk, and sprinkled with sugar. Place dumplings in a greased
pan with a small amount of boiling water and bake in a very
hot oven (450° F.) until crust and fruit are cooked. Serve
with cream or a sauce.
ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING
1 pound chopped suet
2 cups crumbs
2 pounds raisins
1 teaspoon mixed spices
1 pound currants
2 cups brown sugar
1 pound mixed peel
8 eggs
2 cups flour
Mix the suet, the fruit and the chopped peel and dredge with
some of the flour. Mix together the remaining flour, crumbs,
spices and sugar, and add the well-beaten eggs. Stir the fruit
and suet into this mixture and mix the whole thoroughly. Put
into greased molds or into pudding cloths. Drop into a kettle
of boiling water and boil from five to seven hours, according
to the size of the pudding. Serve with hard sauce or any desired
liquid sauce.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
549
Steamed Puddings
APPLE, OR OTHER FRUIT ROLY-POLY
Make a baking-powder biscuit dough and roll it into a
sheet about one-fourth of an inch thick. Spread it thickly
with sliced apples, and sprinkle over them sugar and cinnamon.
Roll up the dough as for jelly roll, pressing the overlapping parts
of the dough well to the body of the pudding and also press the
ends well to prevent the escape of the juices. Roll and tie in a
cloth, leaving room for the pudding to expand, place on a plate,
cover carefully and set in a steamer over a kettle of hot water
and steam one and one-half hours. Serve hot with apple sauce
or any other sauce desired.
This may be baked if apples that cook quickly are used.
Cherries, cranberries or other fruit may be used instead of
apples.
CARROT PUDDING
1 1/2 cups crumbs
1/2 cup chopped dates or
1 tablespoon shortening or 1/2
prunes
cup fine chopped suet
1/2 cup raisins
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup chopped figs
1/2 cup grated carrots
1/2 cup ground nuts
1 teaspoon baking-powder
1/2 lemon
1 cup molasses
Brown the crumbs and mix them with the fat. Salt the car-
rots, which have been grated or put through the meat-grinder,
and add them to the crumbs. Next add the molasses, the fruit,
nuts, lemon-juice and grated rind. Mix all well together and
stir in the baking-powder. Turn into a well-greased mold and
steam for four or five hours. Serve with a raisin sauce.
FRUIT PUDDING
3 1/2 cups mixed fruit and juice
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup shortening
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
2 eggs
Cream, sherry wine
Place fruit in deep baking dish, cover and boil. Cream the
shortening and sugar, add the beaten eggs and beat well. Sift
together the flour and baking-powder and add to the first
mixture alternately with the milk. Add flavoring. Mix to
smooth batter and pour over boiling fruit mixture. Cook 40
550
minutes in moderate oven (350° F.). Turn out on hot platter,
allowing fruit sirup to drip over pudding. Serve with whipped
cream flavored with sherry wine.
STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING
2 cups flour
1/2 cup hot mashed potatoes
4 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 squares chocolate
1 cup corn sirup
3 tablespoons shortening
1/2 cup water
Mix and sift the flour, baking-powder and salt. Mix the
sirup with the water and add to the flour mixture. Stir in the
mashed potatoes and the beaten egg. Add the chocolate, melted
over hot water, and the melted shortening. Mix well, pour into
greased individual molds and steam two hours. Serve with any
desired sauce.
STEAMED DATE PUDDING
1 pound dates
1 egg
1/2 pound beef suet
1/2 cup milk
3 cups bread-crumbs
4 tablespoons flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
Chop the dates and suet very fine. Mix the suet with the
bread-crumbs. Add the dates and the sugar. Stir in the egg,
add milk, and flour sifted with the baking-powder. Put in a
greased mold and steam for three hours. Serve with any de-
sired sauce.
No. 1. STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING
1/2 cup ground cracklings
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses
1 cup seeded raisins
1 cup sour milk
2 tablespoons white flour
2 cups graham flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup corn-meal
1/2 teaspoon each, mace,
4 teaspoons baking-powder
cloves, allspice, ginger
1/2 teaspoon soda
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, excepting the white flour.
Add molasses and milk to cracklings. Combine mixtures. Mix
white flour and raisins and add to mixture. Turn into greased
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
55I
mold. Cover and steam three hours. Serve with caramel or
lemon sauce.
No. 2.
1 cup graham flour
1 cup molasses
1 cup white flour
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
3/4 teaspoon soda
1 cup raisins
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, keeping out one-half cup
of flour to sift over the raisins. Add the molasses, milk and
beaten egg. Mix well, then add the raisins which have been
dredged with flour. Pour into greased molds and steam two
and one-half hours. Serve with any sauce desired.
STEAMED MARMALADE PUDDING
1 cup flour
4 eggs
1/2 cup shortening
4 tablespoons marmalade
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
Beat the shortening and sugar, add the flour and baking-
powder, sifted together, and the eggs, well beaten. Mix well.
Spread the marmalade in the bottom of a mold, pour the batter
on top, cover the mold and steam for one and one-half hours.
STEAMED PEACH PUDDING
3 cups peaches
4 teaspoons baking-powder
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
To be successful with this kind of pudding, the cook must
see that the water is boiling violently when the pudding is
placed over it and must not allow it to fall below the boiling-
point at any time while the pudding is cooking.
Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder together, rub in the
shortening and add the milk. The result will be a dough too
soft to roll out. Peel and stone the peaches and cut them into
rather thick slices. Place the sliced fruit in a greased pudding-
dish, spread the dough over the fruit and set the dish in a
steamer over a kettle of rapidly boiling water, covering the
steamer tightly. Steam for one hour. Turn the pudding out
without breaking. This brings the peaches uppermost, when
the pudding is sent to the table. Serve with hard sauce or any
liquid sauce.
552
STEAMED SUET PUDDING
3 cups sifted flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup suet
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 cup raisins
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, keeping one-half cup of
flour to sift over the raisins. Chop the suet fine and add it to
the milk and molasses. Combine the two mixtures and add the
raisins, dredged with flour. Grease pudding molds or baking-
powder cans and fill two-thirds full of the mixture. Cover and
steam for three hours. Serve with hard sauce or any desired
liquid sauce.
Cold Puddings
RICE PUDDING
2 eggs
1 1/4 cups cooked rice
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon or
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
nutmeg
Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs, add to the yolks two
tablespoons of the milk and place the rest of the milk on the
fire in a double boiler. Wash the raisins, put them in the milk
and cook until soft (about fifteen minutes). Add the rice,
cook five minutes longer, then stir in the yolks of the eggs and
the salt, sugar and spice. Stir well, cook for two or three
minutes, remove from the fire and pour the pudding into the
serving-dish. Beat the whites of the eggs light, add sugar,
spread the meringue on top of the pudding and brown delicately
in the oven. Serve cold.
RICE AND APPLE PUDDING
8 apples
1/2 cup rice
4 tablespoons butter
8 tablespoons marmalade
4 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cut the apples into small pieces and simmer in a saucepan with
the fat and sugar and enough water to cover. Wash the rice
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
553
and cook in boiling salted water until soft, then drain. Line
the bottom and sides of a mold with the rice, fill the center with
the apples, and spread the marmalade over them. Cover the
mold with rice and bake in a slow oven (300°-350° F.) for
fifteen minutes. Let stand until cold, then unmold and turn
on to a platter. Serve with any desired sauce.
Apricots or other fruit may be substituted for the apples.
PEAR CONDE
1 cup rice
3 pears
2 cups boiling water
1 quart raspberries or straw-
1 teaspoon salt
berries
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
Wash the rice and cook it in the boiling water until the water
is absorbed, then add the salt and milk and continue cooking
until the rice is soft. Put into small molds and chill. Turn out
and serve on a platter surrounded by halves of pears. Fill the
pear cavities with one-half the fresh raspberries or strawberries,
crushed and sweetened. Pour the remainder of the crushed,
sweetened berries over the rice and pears. A spoonful of
whipped cream with each serving is a great addition to this
dish.
NEW ENGLAND APRICOT PUDDING
1/2 pound dried apricots
1 cup boiled frosting, using
Cinnamon toast
three egg-whites or 1 cup
1/2 cup sugar
meringue
Soak the apricots over night. Stew until tender and add the
sugar. Arrange squares of cinnamon toast in the bottom and
around the sides of a pudding-dish. Pour in the boiling hot
apricots, cover the dish so that no steam can escape and cool
gradually. Chill and cover the top with boiled frosting
garnished with bits of jelly or with meringue.
PEASANT GIRL WITH A VEIL
2 cups dried crumbs
1 cup tart jam
Whipped cream
This is a delicious Danish pudding. Crumble bits of graham
or rye bread to make fine crumbs. Add a little sugar to the
crumbs and heat them in slow oven until they are very dry.
Cool and mix with any kind of jam, preferably a tart jam like
apricot or plum. Mold, chill and serve with whipped cream.
564
for about fifteen minutes. Add sugar and beaten egg-yolks
and cook two minutes. Strain the custard through a fine sieve
and, when cold, add the cream and vanilla and freeze. This
makes a smooth, rich cream.
For variation, use dark-brown sugar or maple sugar instead
of the white sugar.
FRENCH.
6 egg-yolks
3/4 cup sugar
5 cups medium cream
Vanilla bean
Scald the cream with a piece of vanilla bean. Beat the egg-
yolks, add the sugar and pour the cream slowly on the mixture,
beating constantly. Cook in a double boiler until it thickens,
watching it carefully. Cool, chill, and freeze.
APRICOT ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 cups strained apricot-pulp
1 cup sugar
and juice
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream. When cool,
add the apricot-pulp and juice, and freeze.
No. 2.
1 cup dried apricots
2 cups thin cream
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
Soak the apricots over night and stew them until tender. Put
them through a sieve. Add the sugar to the hot apricots, stir-
ring until dissolved. When cold, add the cream and then
the milk, stirring constantly. Freeze.
BANANA ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon flour
1 pint thin cream
1 tablespoon water
1/2 teaspoon lemon flavoring
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 bananas
1 egg
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563) Remove skins; scrape the bananas with a knife;
put through a sieve, and add to the cold custard mixture.
Freeze.
FROZEN DESSERTS
565
BERRY ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 cups crushed berries
1 cup sugar
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563). When it has cooled, freeze partly; add the crushed
berries, and complete freezing.
CARAMEL ICE CREAM
2 cups milk
1 cup thin cream
1 egg
1/2 cup macaroons
1/2 cup sugar
Caramelize half the sugar (see Index). Combine the milk,
beaten egg, sugar and caramelized sugar. Heat the mixture to
the boiling-point. When cool, add the cream and the macaroons
crushed fine. Beat well and freeze.
BISQUE ICE CREAM
Add one cup of macaroon-crumbs to caramel ice-cream.
CHOCOLATEICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 squares unsweetened
1 cup sugar
chocolate
2 egg-yolks
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563), adding the chocolate to the milk when scalding.
Cool and freeze.
CINNAMON ICE CREAM
Use the recipe for vanilla ice-cream, American (page 563). .
When the milk is put on to scald, add a piece of stick cinnamon
about one inch long and one square of chocolate, grated. Beat
the custard thoroughly with an egg-beater to insure smooth-
VANILLA RENNET-CUSTARD ICE CREAM
2 rennet tablets
1 cup heavy cream
3 cups milk
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons cold water
1 tablespoon vanilla
Dissolve rennet tablets in cold water. Warm the milk, cream,
sugar and vanilla until lukewarm (110° F.). Remove from
stove. Add dissolved tablets, stir a few seconds; pour at once
into freezer can. Let set until firm and cool. Freeze.
MAPLE-FRUIT ICE CREAM
1 cup maple sirup
1 cup crushed pineapple, fresh
2 cups cream
or canned
1/2 cup candied cherries
Combine all ingredients and freeze.
MARSHIMALLOW ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1 pint thin cream
1 egg
1 tablespoon vanilla
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup marshmallows
1/8 teaspoon salt
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream. Add the
marshmallows cut into small pieces. Cool and freeze.
FROZEN DESSERTS
567
GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING NUT
ICE CREAM
Add one-half cup of chopped nuts to a quart of vanilla,
chocolate or caramel ice-cream when the mixture is frozen to
a mush. Finish freezing.
ORANGE ICE CREAM
1 cup milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
1 cup orange-juice
1 cup sugar
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563). Cool, add the orange-juice slowly, then freeze.
No. 1.
PEACHICE CREAM
1 pint milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
2 cups peach-pulp and juice
1 cup sugar
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563). When cool, add the peach-pulp and juice, and
freeze.
No. 2.
1 cup fresh peach-pulp
1/4 cup boiling water
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups cream
Make a sirup by boiling the sugar and water together for
five minutes. Add the peaches and put the mixture through
a strainer. Add the cream and freeze.
PISTACHIO ICE CREAM
Use the recipe for vanilla ice-cream, American (page 563) .
Scald three-fourths cup of blanched pistachio nuts with the
milk. The mixture may be colored with green vegetable color-
ing, and the nuts may be put through a food-chopper, if desired.
Cool and freeze.
568
PRUNE ICE CREAM
1 cup prune-pulp
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup milk
Juice of 1 lemon
1 cup cream
Juice of 1 orange
Rub cooked prunes through a sieve, to obtain the pulp. Add
the remaining ingredients, the cream, whipped, last of all, mix
thoroughly and freeze.
RASPBERRY ICE CREAM
1 quart raspberries
2 cups sugar
1 quart cream
Mash the berries and sugar together, and let them stand for
an hour. Rub through a strainer, add the cream, and freeze.
ROSE ICE CREAM
4 cups light cream
1 to 2 teaspoons rose extract
3 cups heavy cream
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
Pink vegetable coloring
1 cup sugar
Mix all the ingredients together thoroughly and freeze with-
out cooking.
No. 1.
BAKED ALASKA
Vanilla ice-cream
4 egg-whites
Sponge cake
4 tablespoons powdered sugar
Fill a round mold with vanilla ice-cream, pack and freeze,
hard. At serving time, beat the whites of the eggs until light,
add the powdered sugar and whip until light and dry. Turn
the ice-cream on to a sheet of sponge cake placed on a board
and cover it thoroughly with the meringue. Dust well with
powdered sugar and set the whole in a hot oven (400°-450°
F.) for a moment to brown. Place on a serving platter and
serve at once.
No. 2, INDIVIDUAL-Cut sponge cake into thick slices and
cut out the center of each slice, leaving about half an inch on
each of the four sides and on the bottom. Set these cake boxes
on a board, put slices of well frozen ice-cream inside, and cover
with meringue, piling it up at the sides. Set in a hot oven
FROZEN DESSERTS
569
(400°-450° F.) for a moment to brown the meringue. Re-
move to a serving-dish and fill the hollows on top with any
preserved fruit or nut mixture.
ICE CREAM SANDWICHES
Between thin slices of devil's food, angel cake, sponge cake
or butter cake, or between halves of éclair or cream-puff shells,
place a serving of ice-cream of a flavor to blend well with the
cake. Cover with chocolate, butterscotch, marshmallow, maple
or fruit sauce, either hot or cold, and top with whipped cream
and nut-meats of various kinds, moist coconut, powdered or
granulated chocolate or pieces of fresh or canned fruit.
For example: (1) Between thin slices of gold or white cake,
place a slice of vanilla ice-cream; over the whole pour plain
marshmallow sauce or whipped cream and garnish with several
tablespoons of crushed strawberries. (2) Fill a cream-puff shell
with peach ice-cream and pour over it a peach sirup, topped
with whipped cream. (3) Place chocolate or vanilla ice-cream
between layers of white or angel cake and cover with a thick
fudge sauce.
SUNDAES
Vanilla, chocolate or any other ice-cream served in a low
glass, with sweetened crushed fruit or any desired sauce poured
over it, is known as a sundae. Whipped cream, nuts, marsh-
mallow cream, etc., may be added as a garnish.
NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM
1 pint strawberry ice-cream
(Any preferred combination
1 pint pistachio ice-cream
of flavors may be used in-
1 pint orange ice
stead of these)
Pack a mold in salt and ice and spread the strawberry ice-
cream smoothly over the bottom. If it is not very firm, cover
and let it stand for a few minutes. Spread a good layer of
orange ice upon it, and as soon as this hardens, spread over it
the pistachio ice-cream. Cover and freeze.
570
Frozen Puddings
FROZEN PUDDING
2 eggs
2 1/2 cups milk
1 cup sugar
1 cup heavy cream
Pinch salt
1 cup candied fruit or nuts
Make a custard of the eggs, sugar, salt, milk and cream. Cool
and freeze. Fill a mold with alternate layers of the frozen
cream and candied fruit or nuts. Cover and freeze.
MOCHA BISCUIT
1 quart milk
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup pulverized coffee
2 tablespoons flour
6 eggs
Put the milk into a double boiler, drop into it a muslin bag
containing the pulverized coffee and let it infuse for fifteen
minutes, keeping the milk at the scalding point. Beat the eggs
and sugar together until smooth. Remove the bag of coffee
from the milk, add the flour stirred with a little cold milk or
water and cook fifteen minutes. Pour over the egg mixture
and return to the double boiler to cook until smooth and thick.
When cold partly freeze, then fill paper cases with the mixture
and complete the freezing. Serve garnished with whipped
cream.
NESSELRODE PUDDING
3 cups milk
3 tablespoons pineapple sirup
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup almonds
5 egg-yolks
1 cup French chestnuts
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup seeded raisins
1 pint cream
1/4 cup assorted fruits
Make a custard of the milk, sugar, egg-yolks and salt. When
cool, add the cream and pineapple sirup. Blanch the almonds
and chop them fine, then pound to a paste. Shell the chestnuts,
blanch and boil until tender. Force through a sieve, and add to
the custard. Freeze.
Line a two-quart melon mold with half the frozen mixture.
To the remaining half, add a half-dozen large French chestnuts
which have been boiled until tender, also the raisins and the as-
sorted fruits cut in bits. Fill the mold with this mixture, cover
FROZEN DESSERTS
571
and pack in ice and salt for two hours, or pack and freeze in
the trays of the mechanical refrigerator. This is often served
in individual paper cases with a bit of candied fruit on top of
each.
PEACH MERINGUE
1/4 teaspoon gelatin
2/3 cup cream
1 tablespoon cold water
2 egg-whites
1/4 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sugar
Peach ice-cream
Soak the gelatin in the cold water and dissolve it in the boil-
ing water. Add sugar and stir until it is dissolved. Add the
cream. When it begins to thicken, pour slowly over the beaten
whites of eggs and continue beating until it is the consistency
of whipped cream. Add vanilla. Line a round mold with
frozen peach ice-cream and fill the center with the meringue.
Pack in ice and salt, and let stand three to four hours, or pack
and freeze in the trays of the mechanical refrigerator.
Mousses and Parfaits
STRAWBERRY OR OTHER FRUIT MOUSSE
1 pint rich cream
1 cup fruit-pulp
Vanilla
Whip and drain the cream. Mix with it the pulp of any
fruit drained free of juice and sprinkled well with powdered
sugar. Add vanilla, mold, and pack in ice and salt for three
hours, or pack and freeze in the trays of the mechanical refrig-
erator.
MAPLE MOUSSE
1 1/4 cups maple sirup
2 tablespoons gelatin
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup cold water
5 cups cream
Combine maple sirup, sugar and one cup of cream and bring
to a boil, stirring constantly. Add the gelatin softened in water
and dissolved over heat. Strain, cool in ice-water until the
mixture thickens, then add the remainder of the cream,
whipped stiff. Place in a mold, pack in ice and salt and let
stand for four hours, or pack and freeze in the trays of the me-
chanical refrigerator.
572
MAPLE PARFAIT
3/4 cup maple sirup
3 egg-whites
1 pint cream
Cook maple sirup to the light crack stage (270° F.). Pour
the sirup over the beaten whites of the eggs and beat until cold.
Fold into the stiffly whipped cream. Mold and pack in ice and
salt for four hours, or pack and freeze in the trays of the me-
chanical refrigerator. Serve in parfait glasses with whipped
cream.
MARSHMALLOW MOUSSE
1 pint cream
7 maraschino cherries, cut in
1 cup top milk
pieces
6 marshmallows
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup chopped nut-meats
1 egg-white, beaten
3/4 cup powdered sugar
Warm the milk, add marshmallows and beat well to dissolve,
then chill. Beat egg-white and fold in with the sugar and
vanilla. Beat cream very stiff, and fold in, together with the
nuts and cherries. Pack in ice and salt or freeze in the trays
of the mechanical refrigerator not less than two and a half
hours.
BISCUIT GLACE
1 cup sugar
3 1/3 cups cream
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 egg-yolks
Pulverized macaroons
Make a thick sirup of the sugar and water. Beat the yolks
of the eggs and add the sirup and one-half cup of the cream.
Place all in a saucepan over a slow fire and stir constantly until
it forms a thick coating on the spoon. Empty into a mixing-
bowl, set on ice, beat until it is cold and stiff, and then add
the remainder of the cream beaten very stiff. Flavor with
vanilla or any preferred extract.
Pack the mixture in small paper boxes, sprinkle with pul-
verized macaroons, and set in a covered container. Pack in ice
and salt and let stand for four hours, or pack and freeze in the
trays of the mechanical refrigerator.
FROZEN DESSERTS
573
CHARLOTTE GLACE
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 tablespoon gelatin
1 pint thick cream
4 tablespoons cold water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Dissolve sugar in cream. Add vanilla. Soften the gelatin
in cold water, dissolve over heat and combine the two mixtures.
Fill a cylindrical mold (a baking-powder can will do very
nicely) and pack in salt and ice for two hours, or pack and
freeze in the trays of the mechanical refrigerator. Turn out on
a platter, surround with lady fingers, cover the top with
whipped cream and serve.
Ices and Frozen Fruits
CRANBERRY ICE
1 quart water
1 quart cranberries
3 cups sugar
Make a sirup by boiling water and sugar together for five
minutes. Boil the cranberries in a little water until soft, then
press through a sieve. Add to the sirup, cool, and freeze.
LEMON ICE
1 quart water
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup lemon-juice
Make a sirup by boiling the water with the sugar for five
minutes. Add the strained lemon-juice, cool and freeze.
ORANGE ICE
1 quart water
2 grated orange-rinds
2 cups sugar
1/4 cup lemon-juice
2 cups orange-juice
Make a sirup as for lemon ice. Add the fruit-juices and
grated rind. Strain, cool and freeze.
RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICE
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup raspberry-juice
1 1/4 cups currant-juice
1 quart water
At least one quart each of the berries and currants will be
needed to give the required amount of juice. Sprinkle one-
574
half cup of the sugar over them, stir well and let stand for one
hour. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese-cloth. Make a
sirup of the remaining sugar and the water. Add the fruit-
juice, strain, cool and freeze.
GRAPE ICE
2/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups water
1 cup grape-juice
2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1/4 cup orange-juice
Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes. Mix all
the ingredients together, strain and freeze.
COUPE SAINT JACQUES
Fruit cup
Maraschino cherries
Lemon ice
Angelica
Fill champagne glasses with fruit prepared by the recipe for
fruit cup, No. 1 (See Index). Over the top spread a thick
layer of lemon ice, decorating the center with one Maraschino
cherry, and four leaves of angelica radiating from it.
FROZEN STRAWBERRIES OR OTHER FRUIT
Strawberries, raspberries, fresh peaches or crushed pineapple
make delicious frozen fruit. Mash or crush the fruit very fine,
add half as much sugar as there is fruit and allow it to stand
until a sirup is formed. Freeze in a crank freezer or pack in
the trays of a mechanical refrigerator and stir occasionally while
it is freezing.
CANNED FRUITS, especially pears, and peaches in heavy sirup,
may be frozen in the can. Pack in ice and salt, allow two or
three hours for freezing, open the can and serve in slices.
Sherbets Made without Gelatin
CURRANT SHERBET
3 pints red currants
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 pint red raspberries
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
2 cups water
2 egg-whites
Place currants, raspberries and a cup of the water in a kettle
and simmer slowly together for a few minutes. Strain, add
FROZEN DESSERTS
575
remaining water, sugar and lemon-juice. Dissolve sugar in the
fruit-juice mixture, cool and freeze to a mush. Stir in the beaten
whites of eggs. Pack and let stand several hours.
LEMON SHERBET
No. 1-WITH WATER.
1 quart water
3/4 cup lemon-juice
3 cups sugar
2 egg-whites
Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water together for five
minutes. Add lemon-juice, cool and freeze to a mush. Add
the beaten whites of the eggs and continue freezing.
No. 2-WITH MILK.
1/2 cup lemon-juice
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 quart milk
Mix together the lemon-juice and sugar and add to the milk
slowly, stirring constantly. If the ingredients are cold, and the
acid is added slowly to the milk, rather than the milk to the
acid, there is little danger of the mixture curdling. However,
if it does curdle slightly the quality of the sherbet will not be
affected. Strain and freeze.
PINEAPPLE SHERBET
1 quart water
2 cups crushed pineapple,
2 cups sugar
fresh or canned
1 lemon
2 egg-whites
Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. Scald the
pineapple in the boiling sirup, and rub through a sieve. Cool,
add lemon-juice and freeze to a mush. Add the beaten whites
of the eggs and continue freezing.
RASPBERRY SHERBET
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 quart raspberries
1 egg-white
Add sugar to the raspberries, and let stand in refrigerator for
two hours. If the mixture does not seem sweet enough, more
sugar may be added. Add lemon-juice and beaten egg-white
and freeze. Serve in glasses garnished with whipped cream.
576
Sherbets Made with Gelatin
STANDARD RECIPE FOR SHERBETS MADE WITH
GELATIN
1 tablespoon gelatin
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups cold water
Fruit-juice
1/2 cup boiling water
Soak the gelatin in one-half cup of the cold water. Add the
boiling water and stir until disolved. Then add the sugar,
remainder of cold water, and the strained juice of any fruit.
Chill and freeze.
LEMON-Use the strained juice of six lemons.
ORANGE-Use the strained juice of six oranges and two
lemons.
RASPBERRY-Use a pint of strained raspberry juice and the
juice of two lemons.
STRAWBERRY-Use a pint of strained strawberry juice and
the juice of two lemons.
CRANBERRY SHERBET
1 quart water
2 lemons
2 cups sugar
1 pint cranberry-juice
1 tablespoon gelatin
Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes. Add
the gelatin, which has been softened in cold water and dissolved
over heat, the lemon-juice, and cranberry-juice. Strain, cool
and freeze.
GINGER SHERBET
2 quarts water
1/4 cup sirup from Canton
3 cups sugar
ginger
6 lemons
1 teaspoon powdered ginger
1 tablespoon gelatin
2 egg-whites, if desired
Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. Add lemon-
juice, gelatin softened in a little cold water, the sirup and the
powdered ginger. Freeze to a mush, then stir in the beaten egg-
whites (these may be omitted). Serve in sherbet glasses.
SAUCES FOR DESSERTS
APRICOT SAUCE
3/4 cup apricot pulp
3/4 cup heavy cream
Sugar
D
RAIN canned apricots from their sirup and rub through
a sieve. Beat cream until stiff, add to apricot pulp, and
sweeten to taste.
BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE
1 1/2 cups light brown sugar
1/2 tablespoon lemon-juice
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup chopped nut-meats
4 tablespoons butter
Boil sugar and water together to the soft ball stage (234°-
240° F.) Add butter, lemon-juice and nut-meats.
CARAMEL SAUCE
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon corn-starch
1 tablespoon cold water
1 tablespoon butter
1 1/2 cups hot water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Place the sugar and cold water in a pan and stir until the re-
sulting sirup is a clear brown, but not so dark as caramel; then
add the hot water and stir until the whole is well blended.
Add the corn-starch mixed with a little cold water and boil for
five minutes. Continue cooking over hot water for fifteen
minutes, stirring all the time. Beat in the butter and vanilla.
CHERRY SAUCE
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup cherry-juice
1 tablespoon corn-starch
Cream the sugar and the butter, add the corn-starch and the
liquid, and boil over hot water for five minutes, stirring con-
stantly. Continue cooking for twenty-five minutes.
579
580
No. 1.
CHOCOLATE SAUCE
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 squares unsweetened choco-
1/2 cup water
late
1/4 cup rich milk or water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Let sugar and water boil in a saucepan for five minutes. Cool
partly and gradually stir in the chocolate which has been melted
over hot water. Add the vanilla. Place in a double boiler or
in a pan over hot water until ready to serve. At the last mo-
ment, add the milk. (If to be used with ice-cream, use water
instead of milk.)
No. 2.
1 cup sugar
1 square chocolate
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix together the sugar, water and grated chocolate. Boil
for five minutes. Cool slightly and add the butter and vanilla.
COFFEE SAUCE
1 cup clear black coffee
3 egg-yolks
1/3 cup sugar
Make a soft custard of the three ingredients. This is de-
licious for vanilla or lemon ice-cream.
CUSTARD SAUCE
Use recipe for soft custard (See Index). If a thinner sauce
is desired, the custard may be thinned with a little cream.
FOAMY SAUCE
1/2 cup butter
2 tablespoons hot water
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 egg
Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar, the egg, well
beaten, and the hot water. Heat over hot water, beating con-
tinually until it thickens. Add the vanilla and serve.
SAUCES FOR DESSERTS
58I
HARD SAUCE
1/3 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla or other
1 cup powdered, granulated,
flavoring
brown or maple sugar
Cream the butter until very soft, then stir in the sugar and
the flavoring. Set in a cool place until required for use. A
grating of lemon-rind or nutmeg, or a sprinkle of powdered
cinnamon may be used instead of the vanilla. Cream or milk
may be added, with more sugar to make more sauce. This
sauce may be used with a hot pudding of any kind.
HONEY SAUCE
1 egg
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup honey
1/2 lemon, juice and grated
1 cup hot water
rind
Beat the egg, and add the other ingredients in the order
given. Cook over hot water for about fifteen minutes, stirring
constantly.
LEMON SAUCE
1/2 cup sugar
Nutmeg
Salt
1 tablespoon corn-starch
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 cup boiling water
Mix the sugar and corn-starch, add the boiling water and a
pinch of salt and boil until thick and clear. Continue cooking
over hot water for tiventy minutes. Beat in the butter, the
lemon-juice and nutmeg. A grating of lemon-rind may be
added.
MAPLE SAUCE
1/2 cup water
1 pound (2 cups) maple sugar
1/2 cup walnut-meats
or 2 cups brown sugar
Add the water to the maple sugar and boil until it reaches
the thread stage (230°-234° F.). Add the walnut-meats
broken into small pieces. This sauce is good with ice-cream,
blanc mange or custard. It may be used hot or cold.
582
MARSHMALLOW SAUCE
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 pound marshmallows
1/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons water
Boil the sugar and milk to the thread stage (230°-234° F.).
Cool and beat until thick and white. Set in boiling water
and stir until thin enough to pour. Stir the marshmallows with
the water in a double boiler until smooth. Pour the sirup over
the melted marshmallows and beat together. Keep warm, but
not hot.
FRUIT MARSHIMALLOW SAUCE
Thin commercial marshmallow whip with fruit-juice.
MARSHMALLOW MINT SAUCE
1/2 cup sugar
1 egg-white, beaten stiff
1/4 cup water
1 drop oil of peppermint
8 marshmallows
Green coloring matter
Make a thin sirup of the sugar and water (220°-230° F.)
.
Cut the marshmallows in quarters and add to the sirup. Pour
the mixture over the egg-white gradually, beating vigorously.
Add the flavoring and tint a delicate green. This sauce is ex-
cellent served with chocolate ice-cream.
MOLASSES SAUCE
1 cup molasses
1 tablespoon lemon-juice or
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
vinegar
Boil the molasses with the butter for about five minutes. Re-
move from the fire and slowly stir in the lemon-juice or vinegar.
This sauce is especially good with brown betty or Indian pud-
ding.
ORANGE SAUCE
5 tablespoons butter
3 egg-whites
1/2 cup sugar
Juice of 2 oranges
1/2 cup boiling water
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
Cream the butter with the sugar. Put into a saucepan over
hot water and add the boiling water. Then beat in the stiffly
beaten whites of the eggs, the orange-juice and lemon-juice and
continue beating until light and foamy.
SAUCES FOR DESSERTS
583
PLUM PUDDING SAUCE
1/4 cup butter
2 eggs
1 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup rich milk or cream
2 tablespoons cider
Cream the butter and powdered sugar. Add the cider and
the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. When well mixed, stir in
the milk or cream. Cook in a double boiler until it is as thick
as a custard and then gradually pour it into the beaten whites
of the eggs, beating constantly.
RAISIN SAUCE
1/2 cup seeded raisins
1/4 cup chopped citron
1 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon corn-starch
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 teaspoon lemon-juice
Simmer the raisins and citron in the water until the raisins
are tender (about one hour). Sift the sugar and corn-starch
together and add to the raisin mixture. Mix well and continue
cooking for ten minutes. Add the butter and lemon-juice.
SUGAR BRITTLE
Stir one-fourth cup of sugar without any water in a saucepan
over the fire until melted and of an amber color. Turn on to
an oiled pan. When cold, pound in a mortar or in several folds
of cloth. This may be sprinkled over any ice-cream.
STRAWBERRY OR OTHER BERRY SAUCE
No. 1.
2 cups berries
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1 egg-white
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
The small fruits such as strawberries, raspberries and black-
berries, make most satisfactory sauce for desserts. Place the
berries in a bowl, add the granulated sugar and mash slightly.
Refrigerate until time to serve. Beat the butter to a cream, add
the powdered sugar gradually, working it in well. Then add
the egg-white, beaten stiff. Just before serving, combine with
the mashed berries.
No. 2-Crush ripe berries in sugar.
584
VANILLA SAUCE
Use the recipe for lemon sauce (page 581) substituting one
teaspoon vanilla for the lemon-juice and grated rind.
YELLOW SAUCE
1 egg
3 tablespoons milk
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the white of the egg stiff, add the sugar, mix well and
add the yolk of the egg, then the milk and flavoring, beating
after each is added until the whole is smooth. This sauce is de-
licious on almost any pudding.
NEW ENGLAND NUTMEG SAUCE
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon flour
1 teaspoon nutmeg, grated
2 cups boiling water
Salt
Mix well the sugar, flour and a pinch of salt. Add boiling
water gradually, stirring continuously. Then add the butter
and cook for five minutes. Remove from the fire and stir in the
nutmeg. Serve hot on apple dumplings, bird's-nest or berry
puddings that have been made with biscuit dough.
AVOCADO CREAM SAUCE
1 cup cream, whipped
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup sieved avocado
3 drops green vegetable coloring
Peel an avocado, remove pit, and force the pulp through a
fine sieve. Whip the cream until stiff and add the sugar. Mix
well. Add the salt and strained avocado and blend. Then add
the food coloring. This dressing is delicious on fruit salads,
baked apples or any hot dessert.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
595
thirty minutes). Serve cherry pies the same day they are baked,
or the under crust will become heavy. Sprinkle powdered
sugar over each piece just before serving.
Follow the same directions in using any small fruit for pies.
MOCK CHERRY PIE
1 cup cranberries
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 cup seeded raisins
1 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon butter
Line a pie-pan with crust. Fill with cranberries, washed and
cut in halves, mixed with chopped raisins. Sprinkle with mix-
ture of sugar and flour, add almond extract, and dot with
butter. Cover with a second crust, and bake in a hot oven
(450° F. for ten minutes, then 425° F. for thirty minutes.)
HUCKLEBERRY OR BLUEBERRY PIE
1 quart huckleberries or
1 cup sugar
blueberries
Flour
Wash and drain the berries and sift a very little flour over
them, dredging carefully until each berry is lightly coated.
Stir the sugar well into the fruit, and turn into a pie-pan lined
with crust. Cover with an upper crust and bake about forty
minutes in a hot oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then 425° F.
for 30 minutes) Serve cold, with sugar sifted over the top.
Flouring the berries as directed will make just enough thicken-
ing to counteract the excessive amount of juice.
PINEAPPLE PIE
2 cups crushed pineapple
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons corn-starch
Juice 1/2 lemon
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 egg-yolks
Scald the pineapple. Mix corn-starch, salt and sugar, and stir
into the pineapple. Stir and cook ten minutes. Add lemon-
juice and beaten yolks slowly. Cover and let cook five minutes.
When cool, turn into baked crust, and cover with whipped
cream or a meringue made from the whites of the eggs, or orna-
ment with baked circles, crescents, or other figures cut from
remaining crust.
596
PEACH PIE
2 cups cut up peaches
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon butter
1/8 teaspoon allspice, if
desired
Pare peaches and slice thin. Put in pie-pan lined with paste;
sprinkle with sugar and spice, add water and dot with butter.
Cover with upper crust and bake forty minutes in hot oven
(450° F. 10 minutes, then 425° F. 30 minutes).
FIG PIE
3/4 pound dried figs
2 tablespoons granulated
1 1/2 cups boiling water
sugar
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
Cut the figs fine, add boiling water and cook about one-half
hour, or until the skins are tender. Beat the egg-yolks, add the
granulated sugar and the salt, stir into the figs and cook until
the egg thickens. Turn into a baked crust. Cover with a
meringue made of the stiffly beaten egg-whites and the powdered
sugar. Brown in a slow oven (300°-350° F.).
.
RHUBARB PIE
No. 1, DOUBLE CRUST-
2 cups cut up rhubarb
Flour
1 cup sugar
Wash and peel the rhubarb and cut it into small pieces.
Flour the pieces until they are quite white, then add sugar.
Line a pie-pan with paste, put in the rhubarb, with the sugar
well stirred into it. Cover with the upper crust and bake about
forty minutes in a hot oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then
425° F. for 30 minutes).
No. 2, SINGLE CRUST WITH MERINGUE-
2 cups cut up rhubarb
1 tablespoon sugar for
3 tablespoons flour
meringue
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon butter
2 eggs
Line a pie-pan with plain paste. Wash and peel the rhubarb,
cut it into small pieces, and dredge with flour until each piece
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
597
is quite white. Mix the sugar, rhubarb and egg-yolks together
and place in the pie-pan. Dot with butter. Bake in a hot to
slow oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then 325° F. for 30 min-
utes). When the filling is set, spread over the top the stiffly
beaten whites of the eggs, into which the tablespoonful of sugar
has been folded. Return to the oven and brown the meringue
lightly (300°-350° F. for 8-10 minutes).
PRUNE OR DATE PIE
1 cup cooked and pitted
1/2 cup sugar
prunes or dates
2 tablespoons butter
1 lemon, juice and grated rind
1 teaspoon cinnamon or nut-
1 cup water or juice
meg, or 1/4 cup moist
1 tablespoon flour
coconut, if desired
Cook the prunes with the other ingredients until slightly
thickened. Add a little cinnamon or nutmeg, if desired. Bake
between two crusts in a hot oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then
425° F. for 30 minutes). Prune or date pie is delicious served
with ice-cream or whipped cream. This amount makes a small
pie.
STRAWBERRY PIE
1 cup sugar
1 quart strawberries, washed
2 1/2 tablespoons flour
and hulled
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 recipe Plain Pastry (page 588)
Mix sugar, flour and salt together. Mix with strawberries
and lemon juice. Line pie plate with pastry and fill with fruit
mixture. Adjust top crust, gash to allow for escape of steam.
Bake in a very hot oven (450° F.) for 10 minutes, then reduce
to moderate (350° F.) and bake 30 minutes longer.
No. 1.
RAISIN PIE
1 cup seeded raisins
4 1/2 tablespoons flour
2 1/4 cups water
1 egg, beaten
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 teaspoons grated lemon rind
Mix the sugar and flour, add with the seasonings to the beaten
egg, add the raisins and liquid. Cook in double boiler until
'598
mixture thickens. Cool, then pour into pastry lined pie plate,
adjust top crust. Bake in a hot oven (450° F.) for 10 minutes
then reduce to 350° F. and bake 30 minutes longer.
PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE
1 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup cold water
2 tablespoons butter
1 1/2 cups cooked pumpkin
1/2 cup milk
1 cup brown sugar
3 eggs, separated
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 tablespoons granulated
1/2 teaspoon ginger
sugar
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1 baked pastry shell
Soften gelatin in cold water for 5 minutes. Combine next
8 ingredients with slightly-beaten egg yolks in the top of a
double boiler. Cook over water until thickened. Add gelatin
and stir until dissolved. Cool until beginning to congeal.
Beat egg whites, add sugar and beat until stiff. Fold into
pumpkin mixture. Pour into baked pastry shell and chill until
firm. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.
CREAM PIE
1 cup hot milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon corn-starch
2 egg-yolks or 1 whole egg
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Scald the milk. Mix the corn-starch, sugar and salt and add
hot milk, slowly. Cook twenty minutes over hot water. Beat
the egg-yolks and add slowly, stirring rapidly. Cool and add
vanilla. Put into a baked crust.
VARIATIONS OF CREAM PIE
BANANA OR ORANGE PIE-Slice fruit into baked crust and
cover with cream pie filling. Cover top with meringue made
from two egg-whites and two tablespoons powdered sugar.
Brown in a slow oven (300°-350° F.).
CHOCOLATE PIE-Use only seven-eighths of a tablespoon of
corn-starch. Add two tablespoons grated chocolate and two
tablespoons sugar just before removing cream pie filling from
the stove. Beat well. Cover with meringue made as in banana
or orange pie above.
COCONUT PIE-Add four tablespoons moist coconut to the
cream pie filling and two tablespoons shredded coconut to the
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
599
meringue. Make meringue as directed for banana or orange
pie above.
NUT AND RAISIN PIE-Stir one cup of chopped nuts or
raisins, or nuts and raisins combined, into the filling, and
sprinkle a few over the top.
DATE PIE-Add one cup of chopped dates to the filling.
Cover with meringue as directed for banana or orange pie.
BUTTERSCOTCH PIE
1 1/2 cups milk
2 eggs
1 cup brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons corn-starch
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
Heat one cup of milk with the sugar until the sugar is free
from lumps. Mix the corn-starch, one-half cup milk and egg-
yolks and add to the hot mixture slowly. Cook in a double
boiler until thick, stirring constantly; then continue to cook
for ten minutes longer, stirring occasionally. Remove from
fire and add butter. When cool, pour into a baked pastry
shell. Cover with meringue made from the stiffly beaten egg-
whites and the powdered sugar. Brown in a slow oven (300° -
350° F.).
As AN ATTRACTIVE VARIATION, cover the top of the pie with
halves of marshmallows instead of meringue, and brown in the
oven. In this case, use one whole egg instead of two yolks.
No. 1.
COTTAGE CHEESE PIE
1 1/2 cups smooth cottage-
2 eggs
cheese
1 lemon, grated rind and juice
1 cup fine chopped raisins or
2 tablespoons cream
1 cup moist coconut
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup honey, sirup or sugar
Press the cheese through a ricer, add other ingredients and
mix thoroughly. Turn into paste lined pie-pan and bake (450°
F.) until the mixture thickens slightly. Lower the heat (325°
F.) and bake until firm.
No. 2-Omit raisins or coconut and spread preserves or jam
on top after the pie is baked.
600
CUSTARD PIE
2 or 3 eggs or 4 to 6 yolks
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon or
1/2 cup sugar
nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups hot milk
Beat the eggs, add sugar, salt, cinnamon and milk. Mix well
and pour into unbaked crust. Place in a hot oven (450° F.)
for ten minutes to bake sides and bottom of crust. This will
help to prevent a soggy crust. Decrease the heat and cook (at
325° F.) until a silver knife inserted in the center will come
out clean (about thirty minutes). The custard must not boil
at any time. If it does, it will be watery.
COCONUT CUSTARD PIE
2 eggs
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup moist coconut
2 cups hot milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
Beat the eggs and sugar together until light, then add the
milk, nutmeg, coconut and salt. Line a deep pie-pan with
crust, pour the mixture in and bake at 450° F. for ten minutes.
Then reduce the heat to 325° F. and bake until a silver knife
inserted in the center will come out clean (about thirty min-
utes). These quantities will make one thick pie or two thin
pies.
LEMON CHIFFON PIE
4 eggs, separated
1 tablespoon gelatin
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup cold water
1/2 cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 baked pastry shell
Whipped Cream
Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored; add 1/2 cup of
sugar, lemon juice and salt. Cook in a double boiler until the
consistency of custard. Soften gelatin in cold water for 5
minutes, then dissolve in hot custard. Add lemon rind. Cool
until mixture begins to thicken. Beat remaining sugar into
stifll-beaten egg whites and fold into gelatin mixture. Blend
well. Fill baked pastry shell. Chill until firm. Cover with
whipped cream before serving. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
601
VARIATIONS-Grapefruit Chiffon Pie: Use grapefruit juice
and rind for lemon juice and rind.
ORANGE CHIFFON PIE: Use orange juice for lemon juice,
omit lemon rind and add 1 tablespoon grated orange rind and
1 tablespoon lemon juice.
LIME CHIFFON PIE: Use lime juice for lemon juice and
grated lime rind in place of lemon rind.
SOUR CREAM PIE
1 1/2 cups sour cream
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
2 eggs
4 tablespoons flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup chopped raisins
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon cloves
2 tablespoons sugar
Scald one cup of the cream in a double boiler. Mix egg-
yolks, spices, flour, sugar and remaining cream and add slowly
to the hot mixture. Cook fifteen minutes. Add raisins and
vanilla. When partly cooled, pour into a baked crust. Cover
with meringue made from stiffly beaten egg-whites and 2 table-
spoons sugar. Brown in a slow oven (300°-350° F.).
PUMPKIN PIE
1 1/2 cups prepared pumpkin
1 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup brown sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups milk
1/2 teaspoon ginger
Steam or bake fresh pumpkin and put it through a sieve.
Canned pumpkin is ready to use. Add remaining ingredients
in the order given. Turn into a crust-lined pan and bake.
Use a high temperature at first (450° F.) to cook the bottom
and sides of crust. Reduce the temperature and continue cook-
ing at 325° F. until a silver knife inserted in the center will
come out clean. Do not let the pie boil, as that will make it
watery.
A delicious addition, is one-half cup of fine chopped nut-
meats. Whipped cream and a tart jelly are also very good with
pumpkin pie.
SQUASH PIE
The yellow, hard-shelled squash makes almost as good pies as
pumpkin and is often easier to obtain. Use the proportions
602
given for pumpkin pie, adding two tablespoons of butter, be-
cause squash is not so oily as pumpkin. Stew, steam or bake the
squash about one hour and be sure that it is as dry as possible.
Baking insures this more easily than does any other method of
cooking.
SWEET POTATO PIE
Pare and boil or bake sweet potatoes, press them through a
sieve and follow the directions given for pumpkin pie, adding
three tablespoons of butter and reducing the sugar to one-
fourth cup unless a very sweet pie is desired. Flavor with nut-
meg.
MINCE PIE
1 recipe Plain Pastry
2 1/2 cups mincemeat
(page 588)
Line pie plate with pastry. Fill with mincemeat. Cover with
top crust which has several slits in it to allow steam to escape.
Moisten edges of lower crust with cold water, fold upper crust
under lower crust and press edges together with floured fork.
Bake in a very hot oven (450° F.) for 10 minutes, reduce to
350° F. and bake 30 to 40 minutes longer or until crust is
browned. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie. Serve hot or cold.
MINCEMEAT
3 pounds lean beef
2 pounds sugar
1/2 pound suet
2 cups cider vinegar
6 pounds sour apples
2 cups molasses
3 pounds seeded raisins
1 tablespoon cloves
2 pounds seedless raisins
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 pound citron, minced
1 teaspoon mace
1 nutmeg, grated
1 tablespoon salt
Cut meat in cubes, coyer with water and simmer until tender.
Cool. Force meat, suet and pared and cored apples through a
food chopper. Add remaining ingredients plus 2 cups stock
and simmer 1 hour, stirring frequently. Fill into sterilized jars,
seal and keep in a cool place. Makes about 9 quarts.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
603
MOCK MINCEMEAT
6 green tomatoes
1/2 cup minced citron
6 tart apples
2 tablespoons orange rind
1/4 pound seedless raisins
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 pound seeded raisins
1 teaspoon cloves
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/4 cup fruit juice
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1/4 cup cider vinegar
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
Force tomatoes and cored apples through a food chopper.
Add remaining ingredients and cook until thick. Fill into steril-
ized jars and seal. Makes about 1 quart.
LEMON MERINGUE PIE
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon lemon rind
1/4 cup cornstarch
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 baked pastry shell
1 1/2 cups boiling water
3 tablespoons confectioners'
2 eggs, separated
sugar
1/3 cup lemon juice
Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt in a double boiler. Add
boiling water slowly, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water
until mixture thickens. Beat the egg yolks slightly; pour some
of the hot mixture over them and stir vigorously. Return to
the double boiler and cook for 2 minutes. Remove from heat
and add lemon juice, rind and butter; beat well. Cool before
pouring mixture into baked pastry shell. Beat whites stiff, add
confectioners' sugar gradually and beat until well blended.
Spread over filling. Bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) until
the meringue is brown. Cool. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.
VARIATION-Individual Lemon Pies: Fill individual baked
pastry shells with lemon mixture and top with meringue.
BOILED CIDER PIE
1/3 cup rich, boiled cider
1 teaspoon butter
1/3 cup grated maple sugar
2 egg whites and 2 table-
2 eggs
spoons powdered sugar, if
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
meringue is desired.
1/2 cup seeded raisins
Boil sugar in cider until dissolved. Add beaten eggs slowly
and stir until thickened. Add butter, raisins and nutmeg.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
607
CRAB APPLE PUFFS
Line muffin-tins with puff or flaky paste; fill with crabapple
jelly, cover with the paste and bake at 450° F. for ten minutes.
Then reduce the heat slightly (to 425° F.) and complete bak-
ing. Remove from the tins while hot. Serve with a sauce made
by melting crabapple jelly.
RAISIN STICKS
1/4 recipe puff or flaky paste
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
Seedless raisins
2 tablespoons sugar
Butter
Work into paste as many seedless raisins as it will hold. Add
sugar and cinnamon. Roll out in a strip four inches wide and
one-half inch thick. Sift a little sugar on top and cut cross-
wise in strips three-fourths of an inch wide. Put a bit of butter
on each stick and bake in a very hot oven (450°-500° F.)
until brown.
FRENCH PASTRY SANDWICHES
1 lemon
1 cup sugar
1 egg
Roll puff paste about one-fourth of an inch thick and cut in
circles. Dip in ice-water and bake. Serve two of these put to-
gether with filling made as follows:
Remove rind and seeds from the lemon, and chop the lemon
fine. Add sugar and egg and beat together thoroughly. Cook
until it thickens. This filling is sufficient for a dozen pastries.
MAMMY'S FRIED PIES
Stew dried apples, peaches or apricots. Drain off all juice,
mash well and sweeten. Roll puff paste one-eighth inch thick
and cut circles three inches in diameter. On one of the circles
place a spoonful of the filling, having a clear margin of the pie-
crust. Moisten this edge all around, place another circle on
top and press the edges firmly together. Fry in deep fat like
doughnuts or sauté with a little fat in a hot frying-pan, turn-
ing the pie so that it will brown on both sides. These are good
with fillings of mince meat, or any thick jam or preserve.
608
APPLE OR PEACH CAKE
2 cups flour
1 egg
4 teaspoons baking-powder
Milk
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup molasses
6 to 8 juicy apples or peaches
Make a crust by sifting the flour and baking-powder together,
cutting in the butter and adding salt, beaten egg and enough
sweet milk to make a soft dough. Roll the crust one-half inch
thick and line a greased baking-tin with it. Cover the crust
with quartered apples and sprinkle with a little cinnamon and
molasses. Bake in a rather quick oven (400° F.) till crust and
apples are both a light brown. Sprinkle with sugar, keep in
the oven five minutes more and then serve. This amount
makes one large cake.
GOOSEBERRY TARTS
Remove stems and tails of green gooseberries, stew slowly
in very little water till the fruit breaks, then sweeten well and
set aside to cool. When cold, turn into pastry shells cover with
a top of puff paste and bake in a very quick oven (450° F.). .
Brush each over while hot with beaten egg and set back in the
oven three minutes to glaze. Serve cold.
GRAPE TARTLETS
1 cup grapes
1/2 cup white grape-juice
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon corn-starch
1/2 cup water
1 cup whipped cream
Cover inverted oval patty-pans with puff or flaky paste. The
paste should be pricked thoroughly so that it will keep its shape.
Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven (400°-450° F.) remove
from the pan, dry the inside and fill with grape mixture made as
follows: Make a sirup by boiling together sugar, water and
grape-juice. Moisten the corn-starch to a smooth paste with
a little cold water and stir in as thickening. Remove seeds from
the grapes and put the grapes into this sirup. Simmer until the
grapes are soft and sirup is thick. At serving time, fill the shells
and top each one with whipped cream and a single uncooked
grape laid open in halves. This recipe makes from six to eight
tartlets.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
609
LEMON TARTLETS
2 lemons
2 eggs
2 cups sugar
1 cup sponge cake crumbs
Mix the juice and grated rind of the lemons with the sugar,
eggs and sponge cake crumbs. Beat until smooth. Put into
twelve patty-pans lined with paste and bake in a hot oven
(400°-450° F.) until the crust is done (15-20 minutes).
MACAROON TARTS
2 eggs
1 lemon
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 dozen dry macaroons
Mix the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and beat until light.
Roll the macaroons, add to the egg and sugar mixture, and
flavor with the grated rind and juice of the lemon. Mix this
with the melted butter. Beat until smooth and then fold in
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Cover inverted patty-
tins with puff or flaky paste, prick thoroughly and bake in a
hot oven (400°-450° F.). When cool, put a spoonful of
marmalade or jelly into each and cover with the macaroon mix-
ture. Place for a moment or two in the oven until the tops
brown. This amount will make six to eight tarts.
MARMALADE STRIPS
Place a thin layer of crust on an inverted baking-pan. Spread
with thick marmalade or any filling that does not run. Cover
with another thin layer. Cut into strips four inches by one
and a half. Bake in a quick oven (400°-450° F.). When
cool, spread with a thin icing made of confectioners' sugar and
water. Sprinkle with finely chopped nuts.
NAPOLEONS
Divide puff paste into three portions and roll each portion
into a sheet as thin as possible without breaking. Prick
thoroughly and chill. Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven
(400°-450° F.), cool and spread the sheets with cream fill-
ing. Spread the top with confectioners' frosting. When ready
to serve, cut in blocks two inches wide by four inches long.
610
ORANGE TARTS
2 oranges
1 tablespoon butter
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 teaspoon corn-starch
Beat together the juice of the two oranges and the grated
rind of one, the sugar and melted butter. Add corn-starch
stirred into the lemon-juice and bake in tart shells.
PEACH DUMPLINGS WITH WHIPPED CREAM
Pare freestone peaches, cut hole in ends and carefully remove
stones. Wrap in circular pieces of puff paste rolled to 1/4 inch
thickness and tuck in the paste where the stones were removed.
Bake in hot oven (450° F.). Before serving, fill holes with
sweetened and flavored whipped cream.
PASTRY PINWHEELS
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 tablespoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
2/3 cup milk
Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar together. Cut in
shortening. Beat egg and add milk. Add to dry ingredients
to make a soft dough. Turn out on floured board and knead
gently or pat and fold 4-6 times. Roll out 1/8 inch thick. Cut
with pastry cutter into 3-inch squares, then diagonally from
each corner towards center, making cuts about 1-inch long.
Place a teaspoonful of jam in center. Fold corners toward
center, pinwheel fashion. Bake on cookie sheet 12 minutes in
hot oven (450° F.).
PEEK-A-BOOS
Cut thin pie-crust in rounds about three inches in diameter.
Prick one-half of the rounds with a fork. In each of the other
rounds cut three holes, to form a triangle, using a thimble or
some other small cutter. Bake in a quick oven (450° F.) .
Spread jelly on the pricked rounds, cover with the perforated
ones, putting in extra jelly through the holes. Sprinkle with
powdered sugar.
FRENCH RECIPES
The Institute secured these excellent recipes directly from French
kitchens. They have been selected for those who are interested in real
French dishes. The secret of French cooking (except for sweets) is the
use of a whiff of garlic. Even when it does not appear in the recipe,
bowl, baking dish or food is usually rubbed with it.
PLAIN SOUP
6 tablespoons rice
2 large potatoes
Boiling water
1 large onion
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sprigs water cress
1 medium-sized carrot
1 tablespoon butter
4 medium-sized turnips
2 cups milk
ASH the rice and add to rapidly boiling salted water.
Clean and pare the vegetables, cut them in small pieces
and add to the rice. Boil together for five or ten minutes, add-
ing more water if necessary, then cover the pan and simmer the
mixture gently until it is well cooked, and the water is reduced.
Add the butter and milk-and serve very hot.
GREEN SOUP
2 bunches water cress
2 slices bread
2 diced potatoes
2 tablespoons butter or other
2 hard-cooked egg-yolks
fat
Cook the water cress until almost done, then add potatoes
and cook until they are soft. Press through a sieve and add
the purée to the water in which it was cooked. Brown the
bread slightly in one tablespoon of the fat, and cut into small
cubes. Add the minced egg-yolks and the remaining table-
spoon of butter or other fat to the soup, season to taste, add
the cubes of bread and serve hot.
ECONOMICAL VEGETABLE SOUP
Cut equal quantities of any left-over vegetables, such as
carrots, turnips, green peppers, potatoes, celery, string beans,
into small pieces. Brown them in a frying-pan with some but-
615
616
ter or other fat, add enough hot water to cover, season with
salt and pepper, and cook until tender. Drain, press through
a sieve and return the pulp to the water in which the vegetables
were boiled. Serve hot with small squares of toasted bread.
Canned vegetables may be used.
CODFISH WITH BROWN SAUCE
2 cups salt codfish
1 clove garlic, chopped
6 tablespoons cooking-oil
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
3 tablespoons flour
Few grains nutmeg
1 1/2 cups water
1/4 teaspoon paprika
Soak codfish in cold water over night. Drain and fry in oil
until slightly browned. Add flour and brown. Add water
and seasonings, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Serve fish
on platter surrounded by border of rice or potatoes.
CODFISH A LA BENEDICTINE
1 pound fresh codfish
Butter or other fat
4 medium-sized sweet potatoes
Juice of 1 lemon
Salt
1 cup cream or milk
Pepper
Bread-crumbs
Boil the codfish, drain it and keep it warm.
Pare the sweet potatoes, cook them in salted water or steam
them and let them dry, then mash and add a pinch of pepper,
two tablespoons of butter or other fat, the juice of half a lemon,
and one cup of cream or milk.
Skin the fish and remove the bones. Pound it rather fine;
add a tablespoon of butter or other fat and the juice of half
a lemon. Mix the hot mashed potatoes with this. Add more
milk or cream, enough to make a rough dough. Grease a bak-
ing-dish, and put the dough into it. Cover the top with bread-
crumbs and melted butter. Put small dots of butter here and
there on the top and bake in the oven (350° F .) for twenty
minutes. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked.
FRENCH RECIPES
617
CODFISH, BRANDADE STYLE
1 pound salt codfish
1 cup milk
1 diced potato
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons table oil
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
Soak the codfish over night, then put it in a saucepan of cold
water, add the potato and cook on a quick fire. When it is
on the point of boiling, reduce the heat and cook slowly, stir-
ring constantly with a wooden spoon. Add the oil, drop by
drop, and the milk. When it thickens it has been cooked long
enough. Add the salt, pepper and lemon-juice, and serve hot.
CRAB A LA CREOLE
12 small live hard-shell crabs
4 tablespoons butter or other
or 1/2 pound crab-meat
fat
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 teaspoon salt
2 red peppers
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Boil the crabs twenty minutes; open and clean them and
reserve the yellow fat. Pour the lemon-juice over the crab-
meat. Melt the butter or other fat and the crab fat in a fry-
ing-pan and add the crab-meat, seasoning, and chopped peppers.
Cook for twenty minutes.
CRABS WITH RICE
15 small crabs
1 tablespoon butter or other
1 cup rice
fat
2 or 3 small onions
Salt and pepper
2 small carrots
Clean the crabs. Cut off and crush the legs, and cook in
boiling salted water for about an hour. Strain the juice and
pour it over the rice. Let stand for half an hour and then
cook until rice is tender. Cook the chopped onion and carrots
in the fat until slightly browned and then add the crab-meat.
Season with salt and pepper, add the rice and cook together for
several minutes. Serve hot.
This is an old provincial recipe and has a particularly delicious
taste that makes it a favorite.
618
SALMON A LA MORNAY
4 cooked potatoes
Buttered crumbs
1/2 cup Swiss cheese
1 cup medium white sauce
1 egg-yolk
2 cups boiled salmon
Mash the potatoes and line a greased baking-dish with them.
Add the cheese and egg-yolk to the white sauce and pour half
of it over the potatoes. Add the fish and cover it with the
remaining sauce and buttered bread-crumbs. Bake in the oven
(350° F.) for twenty minutes.
FISH FRITTERS
1 pound of small fish
Salt and pepper
3 eggs
Minced garlic
3 tablespoons flour
Minced parsley
Cook the fish and mash them. Beat the yolks of the eggs
until light and thick then add, little by little, the flour, salt,
pepper, the minced garlic and parsley, and the fish. Lastly add
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Drop spoonfuls of
this mixture into hot fat (360°-370° F.) and fry to a golden
brown.
CREOLE FISH
1 1/2 pounds fish
Salt and pepper
1 lemon
1/2 cup tomato-juice
1 teaspoon butter or other
Grated lemon-rind
fat
1 small pimiento
Finely chopped onion
6 tablespoons rice
Select a fish with firm flesh, clean the skin and rub well with
a
slice of lemon. Melt the fat, add the onion and the fish and
cook to a golden brown. Season with salt and pepper, add the
tomato-juice, a bit of lemon-rind, and the pimiento finely cut.
While the fish is cooking, cook the rice in boiling salted water
until tender. Make a crown of rice on a platter, place the
fish in the center, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with thin
slices of lemon.
FISH LOAF
2 cups cooked fish
2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup thick white sauce
Drain the fish and tear into small bits. Add the salt, the
beaten egg-yolks, the white sauce, and the beaten egg-whites.
FRENCH RECIPES
619
Pour into a greased baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven
(350°-400° F.) for twenty or thirty minutes.
FISH EN COQUILLES
1 cup left-over fish
1 chopped onion
8 mussels or clams
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
3 tablespoons butter or other
10 tablespoons milk
fat
1 clove garlic
Buttered crumbs
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
Chop the fish with the mussels or clams. Add the crumbs
which have been soaked in two tablespoons of milk, and the
garlic, parsley, onions, salt and pepper. Melt the fat and when
hot add the mixture and cook several minutes. Stir in one-
half cup of milk and fill small ramekins or scallop shells. Cover
with buttered crumbs and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400°
F.) about fifteen minutes. Serve the dishes on a platter or on
individual plates.
CASSEROLE OF SAUSAGE AND CORN
7 Vienna sausages
-
1 1/2 cups cracker crumbs
1 No. 2 can whole grain corn
2 cups medium white sauce
1/2 green pepper
Cut sausages in short lengths and mix with corn and chopped
pepper, season to taste. Make sauce by melting 1/4 cup butter,
adding 1/4 cup flour and 2 cups milk. In a baking dish place
layers of crumbs, corn mixture and sauce. Top with buttered
crumbs and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Serves 5.
PORK LIVER LOAF
1 pound pork liver
1 egg
1 onion
1 1/2 tablespoons flour
Parsley
Salt and pepper
1 cup milk
Nutmeg
Chop the liver, onion and parsley together until they are
minced very fine. Add the milk and egg, flour and seasonings.
Mix well, shape into a loaf, place in a baking-pan and bake in
a moderate oven (375° F.) for an hour and a quarter.
FRENCH RECIPES
621
PORK LIVER WITH RICE
1 pound pork liver
2 or 3 sliced carrots
1/4 pound sliced bacon
2 sliced onions
1/2 cup rice
Salt and pepper
3 tablespoons chopped parsley
Fry the liver with the bacon until brown, then add the rice
which has been soaked in water for one-half hour. Cover with
hot water or stock, add the parsley, carrots and onions, salt and
pepper. Simmer slowly until tender, about forty minutes.
HAM LOAF
1/4 pound lean ham
1/4 pound grated cheese
2 tablespoons flour
3 eggs
2 cups milk
Salt and pepper
Cook the ham and chop it fine. Mix the flour with the milk
and cook for a few minutes; then add the ham, cheese, the egg-
yolks slightly beaten, and the stiffly beaten egg-whites. Season
with salt and pepper, pour into a mold, set the mold in a pan
of hot water and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) until
firm (20-30 minutes) This may be served with or without a
thin white sauce.
BEEF HASH A LA NORMANDIE
3 onions
1/2 cup cooked potatoes
1 tablespoon fat
1/2 cup meat stock
2 cups cold boiled beef
Salt and pepper
Cut the onions into cubes and fry in the fat until brown.
Slice the beef and add to the onions, then add the potatoes and
stock. Season and cook about fifteen minutes.
FRENCH RISSOLES
2 cups chopped veal or
1 cup water
chicken (white meat)
1 tablespoon melted butter or
1 onion
other fat
Salt and pepper
4 cups flour
1 egg
Chop the onion and add it to the meat. Season with salt and
pepper. Mix this well with the yolk of the egg.
622
Mix together the water, a little salt, the white of the egg
and the melted fat. Pile up the flour, make a well in the center
and pour in, little by little, the liquid mixture. Work the
dough thoroughly until it is smooth, then cut it in slices and
roll out into thin strips with a rolling-pin.
Place the chopped meat here and there on these strips and
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion. Fold
the strips in the center and press the edges together. Cut with
a small biscuit-cutter, making small rissoles. Boil these in
slightly salted water for five minutes, remove them from the
water, drain, and put them in the oven (400° F.) for ten
minutes to form a yellow crust on top. Serve hot.
SAUCE FOR COLD MEAT AND FISH
4 tablespoons salad oil
Mustard
4 tablespoons cream
Salt
3 tablespoons vinegar
Pepper
Mix the salad oil, cream, vinegar, a little mustard, salt and
pepper. Beat together quickly, with an egg-beater. The sauce
gets white quickly and looks like whipped cream. Soon it
becomes as thick as the best-made mayonnaise. Eggs are not
required, the sauce will not curdle, and can be made quickly.
CAMBRISSON SALAD
1 cup cooked beef
4 anchovies
2 hard-cooked eggs
1 small head lettuce
2 tomatoes
Cut the beef into small pieces, add the sliced eggs and to-
matoes, and the anchovies cut up into small pieces. Serve on
lettuce with French or mayonnaise dressing.
RAGOUT OF DUCK OR CHICKEN
2 tablespoons butter
1 sliced onion
2 tablespoons cooking oil or
1 clove garlic
fat
Sprig of parsley
1 duck or chicken
1 cup stock
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon vinegar
Clean and cut up the duck or chicken. Heat butter with
oil or drippings in a frying-pan. When hot, add the meat.
FRENCH RECIPES
623
Season with salt and pepper and cook until the meat is slightly
brown. Remove the meat and add the onion to the fat in the
pan and cook until brown, then add the garlic and parsley, the
stock and vinegar. Return the meat to the pan and simmer
slowly until tender.
Rabbit, hare, lamb or young partridge may be prepared in
the same way.
CHICKEN VICTORY
1 chicken
Thyme
2 tablespoons salad oil
1/2 bay-leaf
9 onions
3 large tomatoes
1/2 pound bacon
1 cup stock
Parsley
1/2 pound mushrooms
Prepare the chicken for roasting. While it is roasting, heat
the oil in a frying-pan, add three of the onions finely chopped,
and cook until a light brown. Add half the bacon, cut in
small pieces, the parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. When brown,
add the tomatoes cut in slices, and the stock. When all is
cooked, press through a sieve.
In another pan, brown lightly the other half of the bacon
cut in strips, the mushrooms and the six remaining onions,
chopped. Cook until everything is tender, then add the pre-
viously made sauce and the gravy from the roasted chicken,
and, if necessary, thicken with a little flour.
Cut up the chicken, arrange pieces in the center of a platter
and pour the sauce, with bacon, mushrooms and onions, around
it. Cut bread in diamond-shaped pieces, fry in the bacon fat,
and place these also around the chicken.
ASPARAGUS WITH CHEESE
1 bunch asparagus
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 cup grated cheese
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon salt
Cut asparagus in pieces and boil in salted water for ten
minutes, then place it in a baking-dish. Sprinkle with the
grated cheese and seasoning, and add the butter in small pieces.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
624
RED CABBAGE WITH CHESTNUTS
1 red cabbage
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon drippings
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup melted grape jelly
French chestnuts
Select a nice red cabbage, discard the outer leaves and soak
for a short time in cold water. Drain, and slice in thin shreds.
Melt the fat in a saucepan, add the jelly and the cabbage, the
water, salt and pepper. Cook very slowly until tender.
At the same time, boil some French chestnuts; take off the
skin and add them to the cabbage. Cook all slowly for about
two hours, until the liquid has evaporated.
STUFFED CABBAGE
1 cabbage
Spices
Cooking fat
1 cup bread-crumbs
Butter
3 eggs
Parsley
1 chopped onion
Place a thin piece of cheese-cloth in the bottom of a bowl
and lay the large cabbage leaves in it. Chop the middle of
the cabbage fine and sauté it in the fat until it is yellow. Re-
move it from the fire, add a little chopped parsley, spices,
bread-crumbs, eggs and onion. Place this mixture inside the
large cabbage leaves, and tie up the cabbage by tying together
the four corners of the cloth.
Place in a pan of boiling salted water and boil until the cab-
bage leaves are tender (about thirty-five minutes). When
done, remove from the cloth, pour a little melted butter over
it, and some fine bread-crumbs, and bake for five minutes.
Serve with tomato sauce.
EGGPLANT ORIENTAL
2 green peppers
6 ripe tomatoes
2 eggplants
3 teaspoons salt
3 tablespoons cooking oil
1 teaspoon paprika
Remove the seeds from the peppers, and cut the peppers into
small pieces. Pare the eggplants and cut into small pieces. Cook
the eggplant and peppers in the fat until slightly brown, then
add the tomatoes and seasonings and continue the cooking until
the eggplant is done. Serve very hot.
FRENCH RECIPES
625
LEEKS AND POTATOES AU GRATIN
12 leeks
1/2 cup grated cheese
6 potatoes
Bread-crumbs
1 cup medium white sauce
Salt and pepper
Cook the leeks in boiling water; boil and slice the potatoes;
arrange the vegetables in a baking-dish, and pour the white
sauce over them. Add the cheese, bread-crumbs and seasoning,
and bake (350° F.) for fifteen minutes.
LIMA BEANS, NEUFCHATEL STYLE
2 cups green Lima beans or 1
1/4 cup butter or other fat
cup dried Lima beans,
1 1/2 cups milk
soaked in water over night
2 egg-yolks
1 teaspoon salt
Cook beans in boiling salted water until almost tender.
Drain; add fat, salt, milk and beaten egg yolks. Turn into
casserole and bake in 350° F. oven, 20-30 minutes. Stir twice
until beans begin to brown.
MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN
1/2 pound mushrooms
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
1 sliced onion
1/16 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons cooking oil
1/4 teaspoon paprika
2 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup mushroom stock
1/2 teaspoon salt
(made from stems)
Juice of 1 lemon
Peel the mushrooms and sprinkle salt over them to extract
the water. Fry the onion in the oil. Add the flour and brown;
add the stock, the pepper, paprika, butter, salt and lemon-
juice and cook the sauce until it is thickened. Drain the mush-
rooms and add them to the sauce. Put into a baking-dish,
sprinkle with crumbs and bake until slightly browned.
POTATO PATTIES
6 potatoes
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon grated Swiss
Salt
cheese
Tomato sauce
Boil the potatoes in their jackets; peel and mash them and add
flour, butter, grated cheese and salt. Mix well and shape in
626
round patties, rather thick, making a hole in the middle. Cook
in a well-greased baking-dish, in a hot oven (400°-450° F.).
When they are nicely browned pour over them tomato sauce,
and serve hot in the baking-dish.
POTATOES, PEASANT STYLE
3 cups potatoes
2 tablespoons flour
6 tablespoons bacon fat
2 cups milk
2 cloves garlic
1 teaspoon salt
'2 tablespoons parsley
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Wash, pare and cut potatoes in dice. Sauté in the bacon fat
until brown. Remove potatoes and fry the chopped garlic
and parsley in the fat remaining in the pan. Add flour, milk
and seasonings, and cook until thickened (about five minutes).
.
Add potatoes and cook three minutes.
POTATOES, JEANETTE COURRANGELLE STYLE
6 medium-sized potatoes
1 small onion
Left-over meat
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon salt
Pare the potatoes, bake in the oven until tender, then cut in
halves lengthwise. Scoop out the centers. Chop the meat, gar-
lic, onion and parsley together; add the salt, fill the potatoes
with the mixture and reheat. The pulp removed from the po-
tatoes may be seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter, and baked
in the oven with tomato sauce.
POTATO FRITTERS
3 large potatoes
Lemon or orange flavoring
3/4 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup flour
Pare the potatoes and boil in salted water. Mash them; add
the sugar and flavor with a little lemon or orange. Allow the
mixture to cool. Then add the flour and knead the dough
until it is very firm.
Spread the dough with a rolling-pin and cut it with a biscuit-
cutter. Fry in deep fat (360°-370° F.) until brown, then
drain on brown paper.
FRENCH RECIPES
627
POTATOES A L'ARCHIODOISE
4 cups potatoes, sliced thin
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 cups tomato sauce
1 teaspoon paprika
2 minced garlic cloves
Wash, pare and slice potatoes into a baking-dish. Add other
ingredients and bake (350°-400° F.) one hour and thirty min-
utes.
COOKED RADISHES WITH CHEESE
Boil small pink radishes from which the leaves have been
removed. Drain, and cook in a saucepan with butter and
grated cheese until the cheese is melted.
SPINACH WITH CHEESE
1 quart spinach
4 eggs
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 cups milk
4 tablespoons fat
1 cup Swiss cheese
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon salt
Wash and chop the spinach. Add the parsley and cook in
the fat for ten minutes. Add well-beaten eggs to the milk,
and pour over the spinach. Add cheese and seasoning; turn
into greased baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven (350°- -
400° F.) one-half hour.
SPINACH A LA REINE
1/2 tablespoon chopped onion
Salt and pepper
1/2 tablespoon fat
3 1/2 tablespoons grated cheese
1 quart spinach
3 eggs
1 tablespoon flour
6 cooked shrimps
1 cup milk
Cook the onion in the fat, add the spinach, which has been
washed and chopped, and fry quickly. Add flour and milk,
and cook until it thickens. Season with salt and pepper and
add the grated cheese. When it starts to boil remove from the
fire and add well-beaten egg-whites, then the beaten yolks,
turn into a baking-dish and bake in a very hot oven (450°-
500° F.) for ten minutes. Garnish with the shrimps.
628
TOMATOES WITH BROWN SAUCE
4 tomatoes
1 1/2 tablespoons butter or
1/2 teaspoon salt
other fat
Few grains pepper
Brown sauce
Plunge tomatoes in boiling water for one minute. Peel,
slice and put in baking-dish. Add seasoning and fat in small
pieces. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400 F.) for ten min-
utes. Add brown sauce and again bake for ten minutes.
STUFFED TOMATOES
8 tomatoes
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 medium-sized onions
1/8 teaspoon pepper
4 cloves garlic
5 tablespoons fat
1 piece thyme
2 tablespoons flour
1 bay-leaf
1/2 pound sausage-meat
Cut off the tops of the tomatoes and remove the pulp. Cook
the pulp and four of the onions chopped fine, with the season-
ings for twenty-five minutes, then add three tablespoons of
the fat mixed with the flour. Cook the mixture for twenty
minutes. Brown the rest of the fat in a pan and fry a chopped
onion in it, add the sausage-meat to it, cook for ten minutes
and add this mixture to the tomato pulp. Stuff the tomatoes
with the mixture and bake (at 350° F.) for twenty-five min-
utes. Serve in the baking-dish.
TURNIP LEAVES
Select the leaves of young turnips, wash carefully and boil
in salted water until tender. Drain, chop very fine, and season
with salt, pepper and butter. Serve hot.
TURNIPS WITH CHEESE
3 medium-sized white or
1 1/2 cups milk
yellow turnips
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/8 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup grated cheese
Peel the turnips, cut them in slices, and boil them for about
fifteen minutes in boiling salted water. Make a white sauce
FRENCH RECIPES
629
with the fat, flour, milk, salt and pepper. Pour this over the
turnips and sprinkle the grated cheese on top. Bake for ten
minutes and serve hot.
DANDELION OMELET
1 cup dandelion hearts
4 eggs
Butter or other fat
Fry the hearts of very white dandelions in butter or other
fat, and mix them with the well-beaten eggs. Cook like an
ordinary French omelet. The taste resembles an asparagus-tip
omelet.
EGGS FLORENTINE
2 quarts spinach
1 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons butter
6 hard-cooked eggs
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup tomato sauce
Wash, cook and drain the spinach and add the butter and
the seasonings. Arrange a nest of spinach at each end of a
small platter. Put three eggs in each nest and pour the tomato
sauce between the nests.
EGGS IN FRENCH STYLE
6 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 teaspoon paprika
4 tablespoons flour
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 cup milk
Bread-crumbs
Boil the eggs for five minutes; make a thick white sauce, us-
ing fat, flour, milk and seasonings. Dip the eggs into the
sauce; cool and dip into fine bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat
(375°-390° F.) until golden brown. Serve with tomato sauce.
MOLDED EGGS WITH CHEESE
3 eggs
Salt
3 cups milk
Cayenne
1/2 pound grated cheese
Parsley
Beat the eggs and milk together and add the grated cheese
and seasonings. Pour the mixture into a greased baking-dish,
set in hot water, and bake at 375° F. until it is firm. Turn out
on a platter, and garnish with chopped parsley.
630
MIMOSA EGGS
6 hard-cooked eggs
3/4 cup boiled ham
Lettuce
Mayonnaise
Cut the eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove the yolks and
stuff the whites with chopped ham. Lay the eggs on a plate
lined with lettuce leaves and cover with mayonnaise dressing.
Decorate with sifted yolks of the eggs.
EGGS AU GRATIN
1 1/2 cups milk
1/2 cup grated Swiss cheese
1 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Add milk, seasoning and cheese to slightly beaten eggs. Turn
the mixture into a greased baking-dish, set the mold in a pan
of water and bake (375° F.) twenty minutes, or until firm.
Remove from the oven; let stand three minutes and unmold
on a platter. Serve with tomato sauce.
CHEESE OMELET SOUFFLE
2 tablespoons butter or other
Salt and pepper
fat
1/4 pound grated cheese
4 tablespoons flour
3 eggs
1 cup milk
Put the fat and flour into a pan and when blended add the
hot milk, the salt and pepper, and the grated cheese, stirring
quickly to melt the cheese. When the mixture is getting cool,
add first the yolks, then the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs.
Put the mixture into a greased baking-dish, set in a pan of hot
water and bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) 45 to 50 minutes.
Serve at once.
CHEESE TOAST
1 egg
1/4 pound grated cheese
1 1/2 tablespoons cream
Salt and pepper
1 1/2 tablespoons flour
Slices of bread
Mix first five ingredients well together and work the mix-
ture until firm. Spread this mixture on slices of bread two
FRENCH RECIPES
63I
and one-half inches thick. Fry in deep hot fat (375° - -390° F.)
putting the cheese side down first; then turn over. Remove
when the toast is a golden brown. This dish is quickly made,
delicious and not costly.
GNOCCHI
4 tablespoons butter or other
3 eggs
fat
Salt and pepper
1 cup milk
2 ounces grated cheese
2 cups flour
1 cup medium white sauce
Melt the fat in a pan. Put in the milk, bring to a boil, and
add the sifted flour. Stir six to nine minutes. Let it cool
slightly; then work in the eggs, one at a time, beat well, and
season to taste. Add the grated cheese. Put the dough on the
board or on a platter and cut into squares or small fingers.
Drop these into boiling salted water and poach them for
about ten minutes. When they are cooked, drain them and
place in a baking-dish. Pour over them the white sauce to
which may be added, if desired, one ounce of grated cheese,
and put the dish in the oven (250°-350° F.) for fifteen min-
utes. Serve hot. The gnocchi can also be served with tomato
sauce.
EGGS WITH BLACK BUTTER
(Oeufs au Beurre Noir)
2 eggs
1 tablespoon clarified
1 tablespoon wine vinegar
butter
1 teaspoon parsley, finely chopped
Multiply the quantities given by the number of persons to be
served. Poach the eggs in water to which a little vinegar has
been added. Remove while still soft and place in a dish in the
oven to finish cooking. Heat the vinegar until it is half its
original quantity; then pour it over the eggs. Simmer the butter
for a few minutes in a pan. Add parsley and continue cooking
until both butter and parsley are browned. Pour over eggs and
serve at once.
632
Cakes and Puddings
FRENCH CAKE
1 cup sugar
3 cups flour
1 egg
1 teaspoon soda
2 teaspoons cocoa
1 tablespoon melted grape
1 teaspoon cinnamon
jelly
2 cups milk or cream
Nuts
Beat together the sugar and egg, then add the cocoa and
cinnamon and the milk or cream very slowly. Stir in the flour,
then add the soda, dissolved in the jelly. Pour into a loaf-pan
and scatter some nuts over the top. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°-400° F.) about forty minutes.
FONDANT CAKE
3/4 cup cream
2 cups flour
2 eggs
Chopped almonds or grated
2 cups powdered sugar
lemon-rind
Cover the bottom of a shallow cake-pan with oiled paper.
Blend cream, eggs, sugar and flour and pour into the pan.
Sprinkle some finely chopped almonds or some grated lemon-
rind on top of the cake. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400°
F.) for twenty or thirty minutes. It is preferable served hot.
CHESTNUT DESSERT
2 pounds chestnuts
4 or 5 apples
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon vanilla
2 tablespoons apricot jelly
Blanch and peel the chestnuts and cook until soft, then rub
through a sieve. Make a sirup of the sugar and water, add
the vanilla and chestnuts and stir until the mixture is smooth.
Place in a ring on a plate. Cook the apples until soft, mash
them, add the butter, cinnamon, and apricot jelly. Put this
mixture in the center of the chestnut ring and garnish with
preserved fruits.
FRENCH RECIPES
633
APPLES BAKED WITH BREAD
Remove the cores from good-sized apples; fill with jam and
butter. Place round slices of stale bread in a baking-dish and
put an apple on each. Pour scalded milk and water over the
bread. Bake until the apples are soft. Serve in the baking-
dish.
MOCHA PUDDING
1/3 cup butter or other fat
3/4 cup cold strong coffee
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
3 egg-yolks
12 lady fingers
Cream the fat and add sugar gradually, then the egg-yolks.
Add coffee little by little, and vanilla. If coffee is added
quickly, the mixture will curdle. Line a mold with the lady
fingers. Turn the mocha mixture into the middle, and chill.
Unmold and serve on a platter.
SOUR MILK PUDDING
1 quart sour milk
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
3 eggs
4 tablespoons granulated
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
sugar
Heat the milk slowly until it separates, and drain the whey
from the curd. Add the eggs, powdered sugar, and lemon-
juice to the curd, and beat thoroughly. Caramelize the granu-
lated sugar and pour it into a mold. Add the curd mixture
and bake the pudding for twenty minutes.
MOLDED CHOCOLATE PUDDING
1/2 cake sweet chocolate or 3
2 tablespoons gelatin
squares bitter chocolate
2 egg-whites
2 tablespoons sugar
Marshmallow whip
3 cups milk
Cherries
Melt the chocolate and sugar in the milk in a double boiler.
Add the gelatin, previously soaked in three tablespoons of
water. Pour the mixture into a wet mold and let it stand in
a cool place until the pudding is firm. Turn the pudding on
to a glass dish and garnish it with beaten egg-whites mixed with
marshmallow whip. Place a cherry in the center of each mound
of garnish.
634
RICE CROWN WITH APRICOTS
Cook rice in milk and put in a buttered ring mold. When
cool, turn into a fruit-dish. Cook dried apricots and place
halves around the top of the crown. Strain the remainder of
the fruit through a fine sieve and pour in the hollow of the
crown. If this dish is desired hot, put the mold in the oven
for a few minutes before trimming it with the apricots.
BREAD PUDDING
6 or 8 slices stale bread
1/2 cup seeded raisins
Salt
1 quart milk
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon cinnamen
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon lemon extract
Dip slices of stale bread in slightly salted water until they
are soft. Drain and put into a bowl, adding the well-beaten
eggs, the sugar, and the seeded raisins. Scald the milk, flavor
it with the cinnamon and lemon extract, pour it over the bread,
and fill a greased pudding-dish with the mixture. Set in a pan
of hot water and cook in the oven (250°-350° F.) from forty-
five to sixty minutes. Serve with hard sauce.
APPLE MERINGUE PUDDING
Toasted bread
Sugar
Hot milk
Nutmeg
1 dozen apples
3 eggs
Cover the bottom and sides of a baking-pan with toasted
bread, wet with hot milk. Core the apples and cook them
whole; sweeten with sugar and flavor with nutmeg. Beat the
yolks of the eggs together with a little sugar and pour over the
apples. Put the apples in the baking-pan over the bread, then
cover with the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a
slow oven (300°-350° F.) for a few minutes.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
64I
COCOA
2 to 3 tablespoons cocoa
1 to 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup water
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 quart milk
Stir cocoa, sugar and either hot or cold water together and
boil over the fire for five minutes; add salt. Scald the milk in
a double boiler; add to the cocoa mixture and stir until well
blended. Or, add cold milk to the cocoa mixture after boiling
for five minutes and let it stand over hot water until hot and
well blended. Beat with a rotary egg-beater to make foamy
before serving. Whipped cream or marshmallows may be served
with cocoa.
CHOCOLATE
2 squares unsweetened
3 tablespoons sugar
chocolate
3 tablespoons water
4 cups milk
Scrape the chocolate fine, mix it with the water and heat
over hot water until the chocolate is melted. Bring the milk
to the scalding point (in a double boiler), add the chocolate
and the sugar, stir until-dissolved and whip with an egg-beater
until the beverage is light and frothy.
ICED CHOCOLATE
Make chocolate or cocoa as usual; cool and serve in tall glasses
with chopped ice, topped with sweetened whipped cream.
RECEPTION CHOCOLATE
1 quart milk
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup cocoa
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 quart water
Mix dry ingredients and make a smooth paste with some of
the water. Pour on the remainder of the water and boil slowly
for fifteen minutes. Combine with the milk, bring to the boil-
ing-point. Add vanilla. Serve with whipped cream. This is
a very thick, rich cocoa which is improved by standing over
hot water an hour or more.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
643
SUGAR SIRUP
4 cups sugar
4 cups water
Boil sugar and water together for ten minutes. Pour into
clean hot jars and seal. This sirup may be kept on hand and
used as needed.
No. 1.
LEMONADE
6 lemons
3 cups water
1 to 1 1/2 cups sugar sirup
Squeeze the juice from the fruit. Mix well with the sirup
and water. Serve very cold.
No. 2.
6 lemons
4 cups water
1/2 to 2/3 cup sugar
Squeeze the juice from the lemons and mix with the water
and sugar. See that the sugar is well dissolved.
VARIATIONS OF LEMONADE
APPLE LEMONADE-Wash apples and dice, using everything,
including skin and core. Cook with enough water to cover,
strain through a cloth and add one cup sugar for each cup of
juice thus obtained. Dissolve sugar in the juice and cool. Fill
glasses half full of this apple sirup, add to each glass the juice
of half a lemon and fill up with ice and water.
BERRY LEMONADE-To each glass of lemonade add two
tablespoons of crushed fresh or canned berries-strawberries,
raspberries, blackberries, loganberries or blueberries. Seedy
fruits should be strained. Garnish with whole berries and
serve with crushed ice.
CURRANT LEMONADE-
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
4 cups currants
Lemons
Cook the sugar with the currants until the fruit is soft. Add
the water, strain and cool. Allow one-half lemon and one-half
glass of currant sirup for each serving. Fill glasses with ice
and water.
EGG LEMONADE, No. 1-For each glass use one beaten egg;
644
add the juice of one lemon and one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg.
Fill glass with chilled water; shake well and serve.
No. 2-Into a tall glass half full of crushed ice put a spocn-
ful of chopped fruit, pineapple, peaches or crushed berries.
Beat in an egg, add juice of one lemon and sugar to taste. Fill
glass with plain or effervescent water and shake or stir until
very cold.
LEMON FROST-Fill a tall glass one-fourth full of cracked
ice, add lemonade fill the glass three-fourths full and frost the
top with a spoonful of stiffly beaten egg-white sweetened
slightly and flavored with lemon-juice.
LEMON GINGER-For each glass allow two tablespoons ginger
sirup, the juice of one-half lemon and two tablespoons pine-
apple-juice. Fill with cracked ice and water.
LEMON MINT-For each glass squeeze the juice of one lemon
over six or seven crushed mint leaves. Sweeten to taste and add
chopped ice, and water to fill the glass.
PINEAPPLE LEMONADE-
1 pineapple
1 cup sugar
1 quart boiling water
1 cup tea infusion
1 lemon
Wash, slice and pare the pineapple, and take out all the eyes.
Prepare the tender part to serve. Put the core, the rind and
the grated rind of the lemon in a kettle and pour on the boil-
ing water. Cover and simmer for half an hour. Strain through
cheese-cloth. Add sugar, tea and lemon-juice. Serve cold. As
some pineapples are much more sour than others, more sugar
may be necessary.
LIMEADE
Limeade is made in the same way as lemonade, using limes
instead of lemons and a little more sweetening. This is even
more refreshing than lemonade in summer.
ORANGEADE
4 oranges
1 to 1 1/2 cups sirup
1 lemon
3 cups water
Follow directions for lemonade given on the preceding page.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
645
PINEAPPLE ORANGEADE
4 oranges
1 quart boiling water
1 pineapple
Sugar or sirup
Add the juicy parts of the pineapple, shredded, to the orange-
juice. Pour the water over the fruit and sweeten to taste.
Cover and set aside to cool. Strain and serve iced. Blood
oranges will give the mixture an attractive pink color.
No. 1.
MIXED FRUIT PUNCH
1 quart blue grape-juice
Sugar or sirup to taste
1 pint white grape-juice
2 quarts ginger ale
Juice of 12 oranges
1 pint charged water
Juice of 12 lemons
Mix fruit and sugar or sirup. Add ginger ale and charged
water and serve with chopped ice. This will serve twenty-five
people.
No. 2.
1 1/2 cups water
Juice of 6 lemons
1 1/2 cups sugar
Juice of 6 oranges
1 quart grape-juice
1 pint tea
2 quarts chilled water
1 pint grated pineapple
Boil water and sugar ten minutes. Cool and add other in-
gredients and let stand one hour. Add chilled water and serve
with chipped ice. This will serve twenty-five people.
No. 3.
2 cups water
1 cup white grapes
2 cups sugar
1 cup maraschino cherries
1 cup pineapple
Juice of 6 oranges
1 cup strawberries
Juice of 6 lemons
1 cup raspberries
2 quarts charged water
1 cup bananas
Boil water and sugar ten minutes. Cool and add crushed
fruit and fruit-juice. Chill. Add charged water just before
serving. This will serve twenty-five people.
646
GINGER ALE PUNCH
Juice of 4 lemons
Sugar or sirup to taste
1 pint grape-juice
1 quart ginger ale
Mix fruit-juices and sugar or sirup. Just before serving, add
ginger ale.
GINGER PUNCH
1 quart water
1/4 cup ginger sirup
1 cup sugar
1 cup orange-juice
3/4 cup chopped Canton
1/4 cup lemon-juice
ginger
1 quart charged water
Boil water, sugar, ginger and ginger sirup for twenty minutes.
Cool. Add fruit-juices and charged water gradually.
GRAPE JUICE PUNCH
1 cup sugar sirup
Juice of 1 orange
1 pint water
1 pint grape-juice
Juice of 3 lemons
Mix ingredients in order given. Chill and serve.
LEMON PUNCH
Juice of 6 lemons
1/2 cup mashed strawberries
Juice of 3 oranges
1/2 cup crushed pineapple
1 quart water
Mix fruit-juice, sweeten to taste with sirup, add water and
crushed fruit. Garnish with very thin slices of orange.
PARADISE ISLAND PUNCH
1/2 cup sirup
Juice of 1/2 grapefruit
1 quart pineapple-juice
1/2 cup crushed pineapple
Juice of 2 oranges
1/2 cup crushed strawberries
Juice of 1 lemon
Proceed as for lemon punch.
RASPBERRY PUNCH
1 lemon
1 pint boiling water
1 cup raspberries
1 cup sugar
1 cup currants
1 cup tea infusion
Crush fruit and strain through a cloth. Without taking the
pulp from the cloth, put it into another dish and pour the
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
647
boiling water over it. Drain off, but do not squeeze or it will
be muddy. Add the sugar and stir until it is dissolved. Cool
thoroughly before adding the fruit-juice and tea.
VERANDA PUNCH
Juice of 3 lemons
1 cup tea infusion
Juice of 2 oranges
1 pint ginger ale
1/2 cup sugar sirup
1 pint charged water
Mix fruit-juice and sugar sirup. Add the hot tea. Cool,
and, when ready to serve, add ginger ale and charged water.
Thin slices of lemon and orange may be used for a garnish.
LOGANBERRY COCKTAIL
2 cups loganberry-juice
1 cup water
1 cup orange-juice
1/4 cup sirup
Juice of 1 lemon
Proceed as in lemon punch.
MOCK CLARET CUP
Small stick of cinnamon bark
1 cup currant-juice
3 lemons
Sugar sirup
5 oranges
1/4 cup currants
1 pint water
1 cup tea infusion
Boil cinnamon, lemon-rinds and orange-rinds in the water for
ten minutes. Strain, and when cool add other ingredients in-
cluding the juice of the lemons and oranges. Serve in a tall
glass and garnish with currants.
CHILLED GRAPE JUICE
Wash purple grapes and boil until skin, pulp and seeds
separate. Press through jelly-bag and to every pint of juice
add one-half cup of sugar. Boil for twenty minutes, chill and
serve with shaved ice.
GRAPE JUICE HIGHBALL
Use Niagara grapes. Proceed as for recipe for chilled grape-
juice. Serve in tall glasses half filled with shaved ice and add
an equal quantity of charged water. Lemon is an attractive
addition.
648
GRAPE-JUICE RICKY
For each glass mix the juice of one-half lime with one-half
glass of grape-juice and two tablespoons of sugar. Shake in a
mixer with crushed ice. Fill glass with plain or charged water.
ORANGE LILY
1/2 cup white grape-juice
2 tablespoons orange-juice
1 teaspoon sugar
Fill glass half full of shaved ice. Add grape-juice, orange-
juice and sugar and fill with chilled water. Serve with two
straws thrust through a thin slice of orange.
QUAKER DRINK
3 sprigs of mint
Juice of 3 oranges
3 cups tea infusion
1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger
Juice of 3 lemons
2 cups cold water
Bruise mint. Pour the tea over the fruit-juice. Mix ginger
with two tablespoons hot water and the cold water. Mix all
ingredients. Chill and serve.
EGGNOG
1 egg
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons fruit-juice
Milk
Add salt to the egg-white and beat to a stiff froth. Add the
sugar, the well-beaten yolk of the egg and the fruit-juice. Fill
the glass with ice-cold milk. Sprinkle top with chopped nuts.
The egg-yolk and white may be beaten together rather than
separately, if desired.
MILK SHAKE
Fill a glass two-thirds full of ice-cold milk. Sweeten to taste
and flavor with two tablespoons of fruit-juice, strained pre-
serves, melted jelly or chocolate sirup. Fill the glass with finely
chopped ice. Shake well. In the absence of a regulation
"mixer" pour from one glass into another. When frothy,
sprinkle with cinnamon or nutmeg.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
649
MILK PUNCH
2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup milk
1/4 cup charged water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix sugar, vanilla and milk. Stir well and add the water.
Pour this mixture from one bowl to another to froth it. Hold
the bowl high as you pour the liquid. When it is frothy, pour
it into a tumbler and serve.
ICE CREAM PUFF
Break an egg into a mixing-glass and add four tablespoons of
any preferred fruit sirup and a serving of vanilla ice-cream.
Shake until well mixed, fill with carbonated water and sprinkle
with nutmeg. Extra ice-cream may be added just before serv-
ing.
ORANGE MILK SHAKE
2 1/2 cups orange juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups grapefruit juice
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup evaporated milk
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup water
1 cup cracked ice
Combine all ingredients as listed, in a shaker; shake until well
mixed.
COFFEE-EGG MILK SHAKE-Use 3 cups cold strong coffee, 3
eggs, well beaten, 6 cups chilled milk, 6 tablespoons cream,
sugar to taste and dash of salt. Add enough iced carbonated
water to each glass to foam mixture to the top.
COFFEE-CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE-Use 1 1/2 cups cold strong
coffee, 3/4 cup chocolate sauce (page 580) and 7 cups milk. Top
each glass with 1 tablespoon whipped cream, if desired.
ICED COFFEE SHAKE-Use 3 cups cold strong coffee, 3 drops
almond extract, 2 cups chilled milk, 2 cups Apollinaris water
and powdered sugar to taste. Top each glass with sweetened
whipped cream and dust with cinnamon.
For additional beverage recipes including wines see pages 737
to 757.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
689
Seal them in clean, hot jars. Golden wax beans, the stems of
Swiss chard, or very small carrots may be pickled in the same
way.
CUCUMBER PICKLES
100 cucumbers
2 teaspoons salt
Vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 ounce mustard seed
2 red peppers
1 ounce cloves
Use the smallest cucumbers you can procure, making two and
one-half inches the limit of length. Put the spices in thin
muslin bags, using at least two bags. Place the cucumbers in a
kettle with enough good vinegar of medium strength to cover
them. Place the bags of spices in the vinegar, together with
the salt and sugar, and the peppers cut in rings. Heat the vine-
gar as slowly as possible; when it is scalding hot but not boiling,
the pickles are ready to set away. If this recipe is carefully fol-
lowed, satisfactory results will be obtained. If the vinegar
boils, the pickles will soften.
RIPE CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLES
8 large ripe cucumbers
3 pounds sugar
1/8 pound stick cinnamon
1 1/2 pints vinegar
1 ounce whole cloves
Pare the cucumbers, quarter and take out the seeds, then
cut the quarters into medium-sized pieces. Scald in salted water
(two tablespoons salt to one quart water), then drain and sim-
mer in clear water until they are tender but firm. Drain well.
Tie the spices in a bag and boil them with the vinegar and the
sugar for five minutes. Pour this mixture over the cucumbers,
cover the jar and set away. The next day pour off the sirup,
boil for ten minutes and pour over the cucumbers again. Flavor
is improved by repeating this process several times. Place the
pickles in clean, hot jars and seal.
GREEN CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLES
No. 1.
Sweet cucumber pickles made by the following recipe will
keep for several years without being sealed.
Choose very small cucumbers. Soak them in weak brine
(two tablespoons salt to one quart water) over night. Next
690
morning remove the cucumbers, scald the brine and skim it,
turn it over the pickles again and let them stand for two days.
Repeat this process on the third morning and let the pickles
stand two days longer. Then scald the brine each morning
until the eighth day, removing the pickles and pouring the hot
brine over them each time. On the eighth day, remove the
pickles from the brine, cover them with spiced vinegar, heat
thoroughly, and place them in clean, hot jars.
No. 2.
7 pounds cucumbers
1 tablespoon allspice
1 ounce cinnamon
1 quart vinegar
2 ounces cloves
3 pounds sugar
Pare, quarter and seed large cucumbers. Wash thoroughly,
then soak for four days in salt and water (two tablespoons salt
to one quart water), changing the brine every day. Put the
spices in a bag. Boil the cucumbers with the vinegar, sugar and
spice until the cucumbers are clear. It is best to watch care-
fully and remove each piece when it is clear. Pack in clean, hot
jars and seal.
MUSTARD PICKLES
1 pint cucumbers, about 2
3 green peppers, chopped
inches long
1 cup small carrots, or sliced
1 pint large cucumbers, sliced
carrots halved or quartered
1 pint pickling onions
1 1/4 cups white sugar
1 cup string beans, cut di-
4 tablespoons flour
agonally in 1-inch pieces
1/2 tablespoon turmeric
1 pint small green tomatoes
1 teaspoon celery salt
1 pint cauliflower, cut in
Vinegar
small pieces
4 tablespoons powdered
3 red peppers, chopped
mustard
All the vegetables should be tender. Soak all the vegetables
in brine (one cup salt to one gallon water) over night. Drain
and soak them in clear water for three hours. Mix a sufficient
amount of vinegar and water, in equal quantities, to cover the
vegetables. Allow them to stand in this vinegar for one hour,
then scald them in this liquid.
Make a dressing by mixing the sugar, flour, mustard, turmeric
and celery salt and adding three pints of hot vinegar slowly,
stirring to make a smooth paste. Cook the mixture over a pan
of hot water until the sauce thickens.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
69I
Drain the vegetables thoroughly. Pour the mustard dressing
over them while they are hot, and simmer them for five min-
utes. Pack the pickle into hot, clean jars and seal.
DILL PICKLES
Choose cucumbers over five inches in length. Wash them
well and pack them in earthenware jars or wooden casks. On
each layer of cucumbers place a thin layer of dill, stalks, leaves
and seed balls included. When all are packed in, cover them
with a brine solution carrying forty per cent. salt (approxi-
mately two pounds salt to three quarts water). Place a layer
of grape or horseradish leaves on top and weigh the whole down
with a clean plate and stone. Two or three weeks will be re-
quired for curing.
SPANISH TOMATOES
24 green tomatoes, sliced
1 tablespoon peppercorns
1 large onion
1 tablespoon mustard seed
2 green peppers
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup salt
2 quarts vinegar
Alternate layers of sliced tomatoes with layers of sliced onion
and chopped green peppers, in a large crock, and sprinkle each
layer with salt. Let stand twenty-four hours, then drain. Put
the vegetables in a preserving-kettle, add the spices and sugar
and cover with the vinegar. Cook gently for forty-five min-
utes. Pack in clean, hot jars and seal.
PICKLED ONIONS
Peel small onions until the white is reached. Scald in strong
salted water (four tablespoons salt to one quart water), then
drain. Pack in jars and sprinkle white mustard and pepper
over the onions. Cover them with a boiling hot solution of
vinegar. When cold, put in clean, cold jars and seal. One
tablespoon of salad oil may be added to the top of the mixture.
PICKLED SWEET RED PEPPERS
Wash the outside of the peppers thoroughly and wipe them
dry. Cut a slice from the stem end and remove the seeds. Cut
into thin strips with the scissors, or into long ribbons, working
692
around and around the pepper. Scald well and then drop into
ice-water to crisp them. Drain well. Make a sirup, using a
proportion of one cup of sugar to two cups of vinegar. Put the
peppers into clean, hot jars, fill to overflowing with hot sirup,
and seal.
PEPPER MANGOES
Green peppers
2 tablespoons white mustard
Brine
seed
1 quart chopped cabbage
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon salt
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cloves
Vinegar
Remove the stem ends of green peppers, carefully extract the
seeds and midribs and lay the peppers in strongly salted water
(one-half cup salt to two quarts water) for twenty-four hours.
Chop the cabbage fine and add the salt, mustard seed, cloves,
cinnamon and sugar, mixing them well. Drain the peppers,
stuff them with the prepared cabbage, replace the pepper caps
and tie them in position. Pack the peppers in a stone jar and
cover them with strong cold vinegar. They will be ready to
use in two or three weeks.
PICKLED SECKEL PEARS
7 pounds Seckel pears
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 pint vinegar
1 tablespoon allspice
1 pint water
1 tablespoon cloves
3 1/2 pounds sugar
Pare the fruit, remove the blossom end, but leave the stem on.
Make a sirup of the vinegar, water, sugar and spice, boiled for
five minutes. Add the fruit and cook until clear. Seal in hot,
clean jars.
GINGER PEARS
5 pounds hard pears
1/3 cup preserved ginger
3 cups water
3 lemons, juice and grated
5 pounds sugar
rind
Remove the skin and cores from the pears and cut the fruit
in slices lengthwise. Add the water and cook until the pears
are tender. Add the sugar, juice and grated rind of the
lemons, the ginger cut in small pieces, and simmer the mixture
until it is thick. Pour into clean, hot jars and seal.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
693
PICKLED CITRON
2 pounds citron
1 lemon
2 pounds sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 pint vinegar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 pint water
1 teaspoon allspice
Pare the citrons, and cut in medium thin slices. Soak over
night in salt water (two tablespoons salt to one quart water)
.
Drain off the brine and cook the citron in clear water until it is
tender. Add the citron to the hot pickling solution made from
the vinegar, sugar and spices, and boil it rapidly until it be-
comes clear. Seal it in hot, clean jars.
SPICED CURRANTS
4 quarts currants
1 teaspoon allspice
2 pounds white sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 pint vinegar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
Stem the fruit, and wash it. Make a sirup of the sugar, vine-
gar and spices and boil for five minutes. Add the fruit and
cook until the mixture is thick and clear. Seal in clean, hot
jars.
SPICED PLUMS
4 quarts plums
1 pint vinegar
3 pounds sugar
1 tablespoon cloves
1 tablespoon ground cinna-
1 tablespoon allspice
mon
Make a sirup from the vinegar, sugar and spices. Boil for
five minutes. Prick each plum with a fork and pour the boiling
sirup over the fruit. Let the whole stand three days, then skim
out the plums, boil down the sirup until quite thick, add the
plums and heat to boiling. Seal in clean, hot jars.
PICKLED PEACHES OR PEARS
No. 1.
4 quarts peaches or pears
1/2 ounce stick cinnamon
2 pounds white sugar
1/4 ounce whole cloves
2 cups vinegar
Dip the peaches quickly in hot water and remove the skins.
Remove skins from the pears by paring. Boil the sugar, the
694
vinegar, and the cinnamon for twenty minutes. Place a few
of the peaches at a time in the sirup, and cook them until they
are tender. Pack them into clean jars, placing a few cloves in
each jar. Adjust the rubbers, and fill each jar to overflowing
with the hot sirup. Adjust the covers, and seal the jars imme-
diately.
No. 2.
1/2 peck peaches or pears
1 pint vinegar
2 pounds brown sugar
1 ounce stick cinnamon
Cloves
Select large, firm peaches or pears and prepare as in preceding
recipe. Make a sirup by boiling the brown sugar, vinegar and
cinnamon together for five minutes. Stick two cloves in each
fruit, put them into the sirup and cook until soft. This sirup
is sufficient for a half peck of fruit, but it is better to put only
half this quantity into the sirup at a time.
PICKLED WATERMELON RIND
2 pounds watermelon-rind
1 lemon, sliced thin
2 pounds sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 pint vinegar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 pint water
1 teaspoon allspice
Soak the watermelon-rind over night in salt water (one-
fourth cup salt to one quart water). Drain off the brine. Cook
the watermelon-rind in clear water until it is tender.
Make a hot pickling solution of the other ingredients, add the
drained rind, and boil it rapidly until it becomes clear. The
spices should be tied in bags and removed before the pickle is
bottled. Seal it in clean, hot jars.
Green tomatoes, cut crosswise in thin slices, may be used
instead of the watermelon-rind.
RED PEPPER RELISH
12 red peppers
1 quart vinegar
12 green peppers
2 cups sugar
3 large onions
1 1/2 tablespoons salt
Split the peppers and remove the seeds. Chop the peppers
coarsely, pour boiling water over them and let stand for five
minutes. Drain, pour more boiling water over them, and let
PICKLES AND RELISHES
695
stand ten minutes. Drain and add the chopped onions. Boil
the vinegar, sugar, and salt for five minutes, and add all the
other ingredients. Cook the mixture ten minutes after it has
come to a boil. Pack in clean, hot glass jars.
QUICK CHRISTMAS RELISH
2 cups chopped, pickled beets
Salt and pepper
5 tablespoons horseradish
Mustard
1 cup chopped red cabbage
Vinegar from pickled beets
Mix beets, horseradish and cabbage. Moisten with the vine-
gar left from the pickled beets and season with salt and pepper,
and a little dry mustard. Toss together and serve lightly piled
in a mound.
DIXIE RELISH
1 pint chopped sweet green
2 tablespoons salt
peppers
4 tablespoons mustard seed
1 pint chopped sweet red
2 tablespoons celery seed
peppers
3 or 4 whole hot red peppers
1 quart chopped cabbage
3/4 cup sugar
1 pint white onions
1 quart vinegar
Soak green and red peppers in brine for twenty-four hours,
using one cup salt to one gallon water. Take from the brine
and freshen in clear, cold water, from one to two hours. Drain
well, cut open, remove seeds and white sections, and chop the
peppers. Put cabbage and onions through the food-chopper
separately and measure before mixing. Add chopped cabbage
and onions to chopped peppers. Add salt, spices, whole peppers,
sugar and vinegar. Let the mixture stand over night in a
covered crock or enameled vessel. Drain, and heat the liquid.
When hot add the other ingredients and cook for ten minutes.
Seal in clean, hot jars.
CORN RELISH
18 ears sweet corn
1 quart vinegar
1 small cabbage
2 cups brown sugar
1 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup salt
4 onions
3 tablespoons mustard
3 large green peppers
Blanch the corn for two minutes and cut the kernels from
the ear. Chop the cabbage, celery, onions and peppers. Com-
696
bine all the ingredients and cook until the vegetables are tender
(twenty-five to thirty minutes). Seal in clean, hot jars.
BEET RELISH
1 quart chopped cabbage
2 cups vinegar
1 quart chopped cooked beets
1 cup sugar
1 cup grated horseradish
Salt
Combine the cabbage, beets and horseradish and season with
salt. Scald the vinegar, dissolve the sugar in it and add it to
the first mixture. Cook until clear. Seal in clean, hot jars.
This is particularly good with mutton.
No. 1.
PICCALILLI
1 peck green tomatoes
1 cup sugar
6 green peppers
1 tablespoon cloves
6 onions
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 cup salt
4 tablespoons allspice
1 cup horseradish
Vinegar
Chop the tomatoes, peppers and onions very fine. Stir all
together with the salt, and let the mixture stand over night. In
the morning pour off the water, add the remaining ingredients
and cover with vinegar. Cook slowly until tender, tasting at
the last, and adding more salt if needed. Seal in clean, hot
jars.
No. 2.
1 quart green tomatoes
1/2 cup salt
1 head celery
3 cups vinegar
2 sweet red peppers
1 pound brown sugar
2 sweet green peppers
1 teaspoon mustard
2 large mild onions
1 teaspoon turmeric
1 small head cabbage
Chop the vegetables, cover with salt, and let stand over night.
In the morning, drain and press in a cloth to remove all the
liquid possible. Add the vinegar, sugar, and spices and sim-
mer until clear. Seal in clean, hot jars.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
697
No. 1.
CHOW-CHOW
4 quarts green tomatoes
1 quart vinegar
1/4 cup salt
1 cup brown or white sugar
6 small onions
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 pint cucumbers
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1 green pepper
1 tablespoon ground mustard
1 bunch celery
Chop the tomatoes, add the salt and mix. Let stand over
night. Next morning drain the tomatoes and add the onions,
cucumbers, pepper, and celery, chopped fine, the vinegar, sugar
and spices. Put the mixture in an enamel kettle, and cook
until clear. Stir well with a wooden spoon, pack in hot, clean
jars and seal.
Ground spices make a dark pickle. Whole spices may be
used; they should be tied in a cloth bag and removed before the
pickles are sealed.
No. 2.
18 green tomatoes
1/2 cup salt
8 cucumbers
2 quarts vinegar
5 dozen small green onions
1 cup brown sugar
1 pound green string-beans
2 tablespoons turmeric powder
1 cauliflower
4 tablespoons mustard seed
1 bunch celery
1 tablespoon cloves
3 chopped red peppers
1 tablespoon pepper
Dice the tomatoes, celery, and cucumbers, skin the onions and
remove the tops, cut the beans in small pieces and separate the
cauliflower into flowerets. Put all the vegetables, including the
chopped red peppers, into an earthenware crock or bowl and
sprinkle with the salt. Let stand twenty-four hours, then drain
off the liquid. Heat the vinegar with the sugar and spices
to the boiling-point, add the vegetables and cook until they
are tender. Pack the pickles in clean, hot jars and seal.
CHILI SAUCE
12 large ripe tomatoes
2 tablespoons sugar
2 large onions
1 tablespoon cinnamon
4 green peppers
2 1/2 cups vinegar
2 tablespoons salt
Peel the tomatoes and onions and chop them fine. Chop
the peppers very fine. Stir all together, and add salt, sugar,
698
cinnamon and vinegar. Boil for one hour, stirring well, and
seal in clean, hot jars. This sauce gives a delicious zest to any
sort of cold meat.
No. 1.
TOMATO CHUTNEY
4 pounds ripe tomatoes
2 cups brown sugar
1 pound pared, chopped
1 cup seeded raisins
apples
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3 onions, chopped fine
1 teaspoon mustard
1 pint strong vinegar
1/2 teaspoon cayenne
2 tablespoons salt
Chop the vegetables and then the apples. Combine the in-
gredients and cook until the chutney is thick and clear. Seal
it in hot, clean jars.
No. 2-If a hotter, more highly flavored chutney is desired,
add to the above recipe
1/2 teaspoon cayenne
2 teaspoons mustard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
12 cloves garlic
1 teaspoon cloves
CRANBERRY CATCHUP
2 1/2 pounds cranberries
1 tablespoon cinnamon
Vinegar
1 teaspoon ground cloves
2 2/3 cups sugar
Wash and pick over the cranberries. Cover them with vine-
gar and cook until they burst. Force through a sieve. Add
the other ingredients, return the mixture to the heat and sim-
mer until thick. Seal in clean, hot jars. Serve as a relish with
poultry or meat.
GRAPE CATCHUP
4 pounds grapes
2 teaspoons cloves
2 pounds sugar
2 teaspoons allspice
1 pint vinegar
2 tablespoons cinnamon
Wash the grapes and remove them from the stems. Place
them in a pan and steam them without water, until they are
soft. Put the fruit through a sieve, add the other ingredients,
and simmer the mixture for twenty minutes. Seal it in clean,
hot jars.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
699
MUSHROOM CATCHUP
10 pounds mushrooms
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 cup salt
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup vinegar
1 teaspoon horseradish
Few grains cayenne
1 small onion, chopped
Take the freshly gathered mushrooms, wipe them carefully
with a damp cloth, chop them and mix them thoroughly with
the salt. Let them stand over night. Mash them, and to this
pulp and juice add the chopped onion, spices and vinegar. Put
in a kettle and boil slowly until thick. If desired, this catchup
may be strained. If too thick, thin with vinegar. Seal in
clean, hot jars.
COLD TOMATO CATCHUP
1 peck ripe tomatoes
Pepper
1 pint vinegar
Garlic
Salt
Allspice
Cloves
This is a recipe used in the kitchen of General Washington.
Wash the tomatoes and force them through a wire sieve, then
strain through a jelly-bag. The liquid is not used in the
catchup.
Thin the pulp with the vinegar. Season with salt, pepper,
garlic, allspice, and cloves. Bottle in sterilized containers and
seal. This catchup retains the taste of the fresh tomatoes and is
an excellent flavoring for soups and sauces.
OLD VIRGINIA CATCHUP
1 peck green tomatoes
1 ounce cloves
1/2 peck white onions
1/2 cup dry mustard
3 ounces white mustard
1/4 cup water
seed
1 ounce black pepper
1 ounce allspice
1 ounce celery seed
1 pound brown sugar
Salt
Vinegar
Chop the tomatoes and onions, sprinkle with salt, and let
stand three hours. Drain well and put the pulp in a preserv-
ing-kettle with the other ingredients. Cover with vinegar, and
boil slowly for one hour. Seal in clean, hot jars. Less mustard
may be used if a less hot catchup is desired.
700
PICKLED HORSERADISH
1 cup grated horseradish
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 cups cold vinegar
To the grated horseradish add the sugar, salt and vinegar.
Mix well and seal in clean, cold jars.
TOMATO PUREE
1 gallon tomatoes
1 bay-leaf
1 small onion, sliced
2 teaspoons salt
1 stalk celery or celery leaves
1/4 teaspoon paprika
Cook the mixture until the tomatoes are tender and put it
through a strainer. Boil the pulp until it is reduced to one-
half the original volume. Seal it in hot, clean jars.
The culls left from canning tomatoes may be made into soup
or purée.
TOMATO PASTE
Spread thick tomato purée on dry plates or flat granite pans
which have been brushed with unsalted fat. As soon as a film
forms over the top, loosen the paste with a spatula, and turn
it on to a screen covered with cheese-cloth. Dry it in the sun
or a very slow oven. When it is so dry that it can be handled
without sticking, roll it in paraffin paper, fold under the ends
of the paper, and store it in a tin box or a glass jar.
The paste may be used for soup, sauces, scalloped dishes, etc.
Soak it in cold water until it is soft, before adding it to any
hot mixture. One teaspoon of the paste makes one cup of soup.
BRANDIED PEACHES
1 peck peaches, skinned
Sugar to half their weight
1 quart brandy
Alternate in stone jar, layers of peaches with sugar until
filled. Add brandy. Cover closely, using cheesecloth or un-
bleached muslin under the jar cover. Can be used after 1 week.
Keep in cool place.
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
703
and cook for three-fourths of an hour, then remove the cover
and allow the chicken to brown before serving.
PIGEONS EN CASSEROLE
Pigeons or squabs
1 Spanish onion
Bacon
Veal broth or white stock
3 tablespoons butter or other
Vegetables, as desired
fat
Flour
Clean and wash young pigeons and tie a strip of bacon around
each one, or lard the breasts if preferred. Place the butter or
other fat in a casserole, slice a mild Spanish onion over the fat,
arrange the pigeons on the onion in the casserole, cover the
casserole and set over a low heat with an asbestos mat under
the casserole to protect it from direct heat and to insure slow
cooking. Cook on top of the stove for fifteen minutes. Add
enough veal broth or white stock to half cover the pigeons and
set in the oven (350° F.) to cook until tender (2-2 1/2 hrs.)
When nearly done, vegetables may be added. At serving-time
thicken the liquor in the casserole by stirring into it flour mixed
smooth in a little water, allowing one tablespoon of flour for
each cup of liquid.
STEAK EN CASSEROLE
3 tablespoons butter or
Pepper
other fat
Turnip balls
3 tablespoons flour
Carrot balls
2 cups stock
Potato balls
Salt
Small onions
Parsley
2 pounds of 1 1/2-inch steak
Make a brown sauce of the fat, flour, stock and seasoning.
Add balls of turnip, carrot, potato and onions, which have
been previously cooked in a little brown stock until tender.
For each person, allow a half-dozen little balls of each of these
vegetables and two small onions. Keep this sauce hot while
you pan-broil the steak until about half done, then transfer
steak to heated casserole, pour vegetables and sauce over steak,
cover, and place in oven (350° F.) until steak is sufficiently
cooked. When ready to serve, sprinkle the steak with finely
chopped parsley.
704
CHOPPED BEEF EN CASSEROLE
2 pounds clod of beef
Boiled beets
2/3 cup tomato catchup
Salt
1/3 teaspoon tabasco sauce
Mix chopped beef with tomato catchup. Add tabasco sauce,
using more if desired. Season well with salt. Place in casserole
and bake (350° F.) slowly two to two and one-half hours,
basting frequently with water and tabasco or Worcestershire
sauce. A few strips of bacon across the top will add to the
richness, and improve the flavor. Garnish with quartered beets.
TAMALE PIE EN CASSEROLE
1 cup yellow corn-meal
2 cups chopped beef
6 cups boiling water
2 cups tomatoes
1 teaspoon salt
2 pimientos
1 medium-sized onion
Cayenne
2 tablespoons fat
Cook corn-meal, water, and salt, as for mush, for about
thirty minutes. Chop onion and fry in fat till brown. Add
meat and fry until red color disappears. Add tomatoes, pi-
mientos, and cayenne. Line oiled casserole with mush, put
meat mixture in center, cover with mush, and bake in a
moderate oven (350° F.; 2-2 1/2 hrs.).
TURBANS OF FISH EN CASSEROLE
Prepare slices of halibut or other fish about the size of one's
hand, with all bone and skin removed and sufficiently thin to
roll easily. Trim all to uniform size, dip each in melted butter
or other fat; squeeze over them lemon-juice and onion-juice,
and sprinkle with salt. Beginning at the widest end, roll the
slice of fish and secure with two toothpicks. Set the turban in
a greased and heated casserole and pour in a little stock made
by simmering the bones and trimmings of the fish in a little
water, together with a few slices each of carrot and onion.
Cook in a moderate oven (350° F.) basting occasionally.
When done, drain off the liquid and thicken it with flour mixed
with cold water. Return to the casserole, and reheat.
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
705
HUNGARIAN GOULASH EN CASSEROLE
4 onions
12 small onions
2 pounds veal
1 cup carrot slices
Bacon fat
1 cup turnip slices
1 1/2 pints brown stock
Salt
Pepper
Paprika
1 pint potato balls
Slice the onion and cut the raw veal in cubes. Cook together
in a little bacon fat, until brown. Transfer to casserole, pour
over it the brown stock and season with pepper and paprika.
Place in moderate oven (350° F.). Add more fat to that in
the frying-pan and brown in this the potato balls, small onions,
and slices of carrot and turnip. Add the vegetables and salt to
the casserole when the meat is partly cooked. Finish the cook-
ing, adding more stock if necessary. This dish should cook two
hours. If the broth is too thin when ready to serve, thicken
slightly with browned flour rubbed smooth in water.
LAMB EN CASSEROLE
6 slices of lamb
1 pint vegetable balls
2 tablespoons melted butter or
12 small onions
other fat
Seasoning
2 cups brown stock
Cut thick slices from a leg of lamb and sear, browning both
sides. Brush with melted fat and place in casserole with one-
half to one cup of brown stock. Cook over heat or in a mod-
erate oven (350° F.) until tender, then add potato balls, carrot
balls and onions, which have been previously cooked. Add more
brown stock, salt, pepper and paprika.
PORK CHOPS EN CASSEROLE
6 pork chops
1/2 cup brown sugar
6 sweet potatoes
1 to 2 cups milk
Salt and pepper
Place a layer of sweet potatoes, sliced crosswise, in a greased
casserole, dust with salt, pepper, and a little brown sugar; con-
tinue the layers until the casserole is about two-thirds full.
Heat the milk and pour it over the potatoes; it should just cover
them. Place the pork chops on top of the potatoes, cover and
706
bake (at 350° F.) for an hour, then remove the cover and
season with salt and pepper. Leave the cover off and cook until
the chops are tender and nicely browned on top.
Four tart apples, pared, cored and cut in eighths, used in
place of the sweet potatoes, make an excellent casserole dish
with pork chops.
CALF'S LIVER EN CASSEROLE
1 pound calf's liver
3 cups potato balls
6 slices bacon
1 pint brown stock
1 cup button mushrooms
Wash the calf's liver thoroughly and wipe dry. Fry some
bacon in a pan, remove, place the liver in the bacon fat, and sear
each side thoroughly. Transfer to a casserole, add slices of
bacon, brown stock, and sautéd mushroons. Cook for one hour
and a half in the oven (350° F.) adding more stock if necessary.
Just before serving add potato balls which have been fried in
deep fat (395° F.) and drained.
CASSEROLE OF RICE AND LIVER
1 cup rice
1 teaspoon caramel
1 quart water
2 tablespoons browned flour
2 tablespoons butter or other
2 tablespoons fat
fat
Crumbs
1 pound lamb's or calf's liver
Salt and pepper
2 cups stock
Boil the rice in the water and mash smooth with the fat.
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Line a well-greased
casserole with the mixture, pressing the paste firmly against
bottom and sides, and leaving a large hollow in the center. Set
in a cold place until firm. Meanwhile boil the liver, drain,
chop fine and season with salt. Heat the soup stock, seasoned
with caramel (See Index). Make a brown sauce with the fat,
browned flour and soup stock, and add the minced liver. Fill
the hollow in the center of the rice with the liver mixture,
sprinkle with crumbs and brown in the oven.
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
707
RICE EN CASSEROLE
2 cups chopped cold meat
2 tablespoons butter or other
3 eggs
fat
1/3 cup milk
2 tablespoons tomato catchup
2 cups boiled rice
Salt
Celery-salt
Season the meat and pile it in the center of an oiled casserole.
Mix the eggs, milk, rice, fat and seasonings. Pour over the
meat, cover, and bake (350° F.) for twenty minutes.
SPANISH RICE
3/4 cup rice
1/2 cup chopped green pepper
2 tablespoons fat
or pimientos
5 cups water
Salt
2 onions
Pepper
2 cups tomatoes
Paprika
Fry the rice in the fat until brown, then add water and boil
until soft. Drain. Sauté the onions in a little fat; mix with
tomatoes and chopped peppers or pimientos, and add to the
rice. Add seasoning, and place in a greased casserole. Bake
(350° F.) for thirty minutes.
RICE A LA CREOLE
1 cup chopped boiled ham
2 cups fine soft crumbs
1 onion
2 tablespoons butter or other
1 cup boiled rice
fat
1 can tomatoes
Celery-salt
Pepper and salt
Mix ingredients in the order given. Bake in a greased
casserole for one-half hour (350° F.). This dish makes a good
one-dish meal.
SPAGHETTI, SPANISH MICHEL
2 cups spaghetti
1 onion
1 quart tomatoes, fresh or
1 green pepper
canned
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup boiled ham
1/2 teaspoon salt
Break the spaghetti into inch pieces. Cook in one quart
boiling water until tender, add the tomatoes, and cook fifteen
708
minutes longer. Remove the fat from the ham and try it out.
Dice onion and green pepper, and fry slowly in this fat until
tender. Chop the ham and add it with the onion, green pepper
and seasoning to the spaghetti and tomatoes. Put in casserole
and bake fifteen minutes in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
SCALLOPED HAM AND POTATOES
6 potatoes
1 green pepper (may be
1 pound raw smoked ham
omitted)
3 cups milk (or more)
Flour
Cover the bottom of an oiled baking-dish with sliced, raw
potatoes. Sprinkle with flour add inch-square pieces of ham.
Repeat until the dish is full. Pour in as much milk as the dish
will hold. Bake (350°-400° F.) until the potatoes are tender
(1-1 1/2 hrs.). Chopped green pepper adds to the flavor.
SUMMER CASSEROLE
6 hard-cooked eggs
2 teaspoons salt
3 ripe tomatoes
1 1/2 cups milk
3 tablespoons butter or other
1/2 cup grated cheese
fat
Buttered crumbs
3 tablespoons flour
Cut hard-cooked eggs in half and arrange around the edge
of a greased casserole or baking-dish. Slice peeled ripe tomatoes
in the center of the dish. Make a white sauce of the milk, fat
and flour. Add cheese, and stir over a very low fire until the
cheese is well mixed and smooth. Pour over tomatoes and eggs.
Cover with crumbs and bake twenty minutes in a moderate
oven (350°-400° F.).
The centers of the tomatoes may be scooped out, and a whole
egg placed in each, if desired.
BANANAS EN CASSEROLE
6 small bananas
1 cup boiling water
1 glass currant or grape jelly
1 lemon
Peel the bananas. Remove the coarse threads and divide in
quarters, cutting first crosswise and then lengthwise. Place in
a greased casserole and pour over them a sauce made by melting
the currant or grape jelly in the boiling water, and mixing with
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
709
it the juice of a lemon. Cover the casserole and bake in a hot
oven (400°-450° F.) until the bananas are tender. The cover
may be removed at the last moment and the bananas sprinkled
with granulated sugar and allowed to brown slightly. Serve
as an entrée with game, mutton, or beef.
AU GRATIN DISHES EN CASSEROLE
Au gratin dishes, many of which are given in this book, are
particularly adapted to the casserole. The mixtures of chicken,
sweetbreads, fish, macaroni and vegetables may be entirely pre-
pared, then placed in the casserole, topped with buttered
crumbs and cheese and placed in a hot oven (400°-450° F.)
to brown.
EGGS YORKSHIRE-
1/2 cup fat
1 cup pastry flour
2 eggs, beaten
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 hard or soft cooked eggs
Place casserole with fat in oven to melt. Remove fat to use
in batter, leaving enough to grease casserole thoroughly. Re-
turn casserole to oven to heat. Beat eggs and milk thoroughly;
add baking powder, flour, salt and fat and beat mixture until
smooth. Cover bottom of casserole with layer of eggs (whole,
halved, quartered or sliced). Pour in batter until casserole is
about 2/3 full and place in hot oven (450° F.) for 15 minutes
until mixture begins to expand and brown slightly, then reduce
to 350° F. for 25 minutes. The batter should puff nicely during
baking, making an attractive uneven broken surface. Serve at
once from baking dish.
SALMON CASSEROLE-
1 1-pound can salmon
2 cups prepared biscuit
1/3 cup milk
flour
1/2 pound American cheese
3/4 cup milk
Flake salmon in casserole. Melt cheese in top of a double
boiler; add 1/3 cup milk while stirring. Pour over salmon. Mix
biscuit flour and 3/4 cup milk and make biscuits. Cut each in
half and place around edge of casserole. Bake in hot oven
(425° F.) until lightly browned.
COOKING AT THE TABLE
719
4. IF YOUR COOKERS ARE ELECTRIC, be sure that your wires
are heavy enough to bear the load without blowing out a fuse.
Unless you have special wiring and sturdy convenience out-
lets, it is safer not to attempt to use a grill or waffle iron plus
a percolator on the same circuit. Plan to use first one and then
the other, or you may melt a fuse when the meal is but half
ready, leaving your guests hungry for that always indefinite
period until it may be replaced.
Dishes That Are Especially Good for Table Cookery
BANANA SAUTÉ
1 tablespoon butter
Flour
Sugar
3 bananas
3 to 6 slices sponge cake
Melt the butter in the blazer. Peel the bananas, cut in half
lengthwise, roll lightly in flour and brown on both sides in the
hot fat. Sprinkle with sugar and serve on oblongs of sponge
cake.
CHICKEN HASH
1 1/2 cups chopped chicken
1 tablespoon parsley
1 cup diced boiled potatoes
Salt
Pepper
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 cup stock or water
Mix the chicken and the potatoes lightly together. Melt the
fat in the blazer, add the potato and meat, parsley, seasoning and
stock, and cook directly over the flame.
If desired, one-fourth cup of chopped green peppers may be
added.
CRAB RAREBIT
1 tablespoon fat
Pepper
Parsley
2 tablespoons flour
1 to 2 cups crab meat, fresh
2 cups cream
or canned
1/8 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese
1/2 teaspoon salt
Toast
Make a white sauce of the fat, flour, cream, soda and season-
ings. Add chopped cooked crab meat (see page 221). Arrange
squares of buttered toast on a hot platter. Pour the crab mix-
ture over them, sprinkle with grated cheese and serve piping hot.
720
ENGLISH MONKEY
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 egg
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fat
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup mild American cheese
Toast
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk until they are soft. Melt
the fat in the blazer. Add the cheese cut in dice. When the
cheese has melted, add the softened crumbs, the egg beaten,
and salt and pepper. Cook three minutes longer and pour over
squares of toast.
GRILLED SARDINES
12 large sardines
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
6 pieces toast
Drain sardines and heat thoroughly in chafing-dish. Turn
frequently; add lemon-juice and serve on finger-length pieces
of toast.
OYSTERS A L'INDIENNE
1 pint oysters
2 tablespoons Worcestershire
Bacon
sauce
Cloves
1 tablespoon minced parsley
2 tablespoons chutney
6 olives
sauce
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Drain large oysters, wipe them dry, wrap each in a slice of
bacon, fasten with a toothpick, and stick two cloves in each
oyster. Put the oysters in the blazer and cook until the bacon
is crisp and the oysters plump. Mix the chutney sauce, Wor-
cestershire sauce, minced parsley, olives cut fine, and paprika.
Pour over the oysters, stirring it thoroughly into the gravy.
This recipe will serve three or four.
LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG
2 tablespoons butter
1 pint milk
1 teaspoon flour
3 egg-yolks
1 boiled lobster or 1 can
Salt
of lobster
Cayenne
Place the butter in the blazer and stir it as it foams. Rub
the flour into the butter, add the salt and pepper, then one-
746
cook a very short time. Lift out, chill and serve with tartar
sauce. It may be covered with an aspic gelatin and garnished
with shrimps and bits of truffle.
JELLIED CONSOMME WITH SHERRY
3 cups seasoned consommé
4 tablespoons sherry wine
2 tablespoons gelatin
1/2 cup cold water
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
Minced parsley
Soften the gelatin in the cold water. Dissolve in the hot con-
sommé. Add the lemon juice and wine, and salt if required.
Chill in the refrigerator. Chop lightly before putting in service
cups. Top with minced parsley, a lemon crescent or a bit of
tomato fringed with minced green pepper.
HALIBUT À LA NEWBURG
1 lb. halibut
1 cup evaporated milk (un-
1 tablespoon brandy
diluted-)
1/4 cup sherry wine
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 tablespoons butter
3 egg yolks
Dash cayenne-salt to taste
Cut the halibut in small cubes. Steam over hot water or poach
in court bouillon for five minutes. Beware of long or swift cook-
ing as the halibut easily loses its shape. When poached, put the
fish, butter, wine, brandy, salt and cayenne in a double boiler
and heat smoking hot. Beat the yolks and combine with the
evaporated milk (sour cream may be substituted for the milk
and lemon juice) and cook with the hot fish for one minute.
Remove from the fire and add the lemon juice. Serve on very
hot plates. An excellent chafing dish innovation.
LOBSTER CURRY APPETIZER
1/2 cup fresh or canned lob-
1/4 teaspoon curry powder
ster meat
1 teaspoon sherry wine
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon dry mustard
Sauté the lobster in the melted fat. Add the seasonings and
the wine. When very hot serve on small bread croustades or
packaged appetizer shells.
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
747
LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG
1/2 lb. butter
3 cups lobster meat (3 1/2 lb.
1 cup Madeira wine
live lobster)
2 cups whipping cream
Salt and cayenne to taste
1 small can truffles
Cut the lobster in small pieces. Chop the truffles fine. Heat
both the above in melted butter till very hot. Add the wine.
When hot add the cream and seasoning and let them blend for
several minutes. Cook over hot water, as a high temperature
will curdle the cream-wine mixture.
SOLE THERMIDOR
1 lb. sole or filet of flounder
1/4 cup brandy
1 tablespoon flour
3 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup sour cream
2 cups court bouillon
1 teaspoon dry mustard
4 tablespoons grated Swiss
Salt and cayenne to taste
or Parmesan cheese
Neatly trim the fish fillets and poach in court bouillon.
(See page 745.) Lift onto a hot baking platter. Combine the
flour and melted butter and add the court bouillon in which the
fish was poached. Add the seasonings, the cream, the brandy
and 2 tablespoons of the cheese. Do not cook. Pour over the
fish, sprinkle with the remaining cheese and put close under the
flame to brown instantly. Serve as an entrée.
HAM PORTE MAILLOT
1/4 cup cooking fat
1/2 clove garlic
1/2 cup dried Lima beans
1/2 cup cauliflower
(cooked)
1/4 cup celery
1/2 cup carrots
2 leaves lettuce
1/4 cup onion
1/2 to 3/4 cup dry white wine
Originated by a restaurant just outside the Porte Maillot, one
of the gates of Paris, this dish brings a new flavor to a baked
ham. We have substituted dried Lima beans for the French
white bean that is infrequently used in America. Cut the car-
rots, onion, garlic, celery, cauliflower and lettuce in long nar-
row shreds. Simmer them in the cooking fat but do not brown.
748
When cooked add the previously cooked Lima beans and the
white wine. Cook together one minute and serve around a hot
baked ham or as a sauce for left-over ham that has been re-
heated over steam.
VEAL WITH OLIVES
1 1/2 lbs. veal cutlets
1/4 cup butter or cooking fat
1/3 cup Marsala wine
10 green olives
Salt and pepper to taste
The secret of the success of this delicious Italian meat is to
have the veal pounded paper thin. Ask for veal scaloppini at
markets in the East. Otherwise ask for veal cutlets and ask
the butcher to pound the meat paper thin after cutting it
1/4 inch thick. Wipe the veal, sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Simmer very quickly in the melted butter, browning lightly on
both sides, add the wine and the olives cut in narrow strips.
Heat one minute and serve. The veal should cook in five
minutes.
BURGUNDIAN BEEF
3 lbs. beef, rump or round
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 lb. salt pork
3 tablespoons flour
3 cups minced onion
1/2 carrot, in circles
2 small shallots, minced
1 clove garlic
6 peppercorns
2 tablespoons minced parsley
2 bay leaves
2 tablespoons minced chervil
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
1 1/2 to 2 cups red wine
or fresh minced tarragon
Salt to taste
1/8 teaspoon thyme
Dice the salt pork. and sauté in the butter. Cut the beef in
two-inch cubes or leave in one piece as preferred. Sear thor-
oughly in the hot fat. Lift out. Add the onion, garlic, shallots
and carrot. Simmer them in the fat till light yellow. Add all
the other ingredients and the beef. Cook on a very slow fire
three hours. Remove excess fat and serve. It may be re-heated
with advantage.
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
749
LAMB CHOPS WITH MADEIRA
6 lamb chops
2 carrots
3 onions
4 mushrooms
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons Madeira
1 teaspoon tomato paste
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1/2 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cut the vegetables in fine inch-length strips. Simmer them
in the butter till tender. Cover during this cooking so that the
zest will be preserved. Season. Add the tomato paste and
Madeira. Serve on top of broiled lamb chops. Thick lamb
chops boned and circled with bacon add elegance to this
Madeira flavored dish.
CHICKEN BRAISED WITH WINE
(Coq au Vin)
1 frying chicken
3 tablespoons butter
8 small white onions
1/4 lb. salt pork diced
4 small shallots
1/4 lb. mushrooms
1 tablespoon minced parsley
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon minced chervil
1 carrot
2 tablespoons flour
Pinch thyme
1 tablespoon brandy
1 cup red or white wine
Salt and pepper to taste
1 clove garlic
Lightly brown the salt pork in the melted butter, add the
shallot, onions, garlic and the carrot cut in circles. Simmer till
golden, but not browned. Lift out and brown the chicken.
Sprinkle with the flour, seasoning and herbs. Return the
sautéed vegetables and add the wine. Cook fifteen to twenty
minutes on a rather hot fire. During the last five minutes add
the mushrooms. Skim off excess fat and serve.
Red wine is usual in making this dish, but the white one
gives a more delicate flavor.
Make your dinner perfect by serving with this chicken
a
salad of mixed greens with a simple French dressing made with
lemon juice. The acid of vinegar devitalizes the subtle details
in flavor of the wine-cooked chicken.
750
EGGS WITH SHERRY AND ORANGE
(Oeufs au Xérès et à l'Orange)
6 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sherry
Cayenne
3 tablespoons tomato sauce
Butter
Grated orange rind
Beat eggs until no longer stringy. Blend in sherry and tomato
sauce. Add seasonings. Melt butter in a frying pan and pour
in the mixture. Cook slowly, stirring until it begins to set. Then
sprinkle with the grated orange rind and serve immediately.
PLANTATION SWEET POTATOES
6 sweet potatoes
6 tablespoons sherry wine
3/4 cup butter or other fat
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
Paprika
1/4 teaspoon pepper
Bake washed sweet potatoes at 450° F. for 40 minutes. Cut
off a slice from the top of each and hollow out. Mash the
potato. Whip with the melted butter or other fat, the season-
ing and the sherry. Re-stuff in the potato shells and sprinkle
with paprika. Brown in the oven.
MUSHROOMS WITH MADEIRA
1/2 lb. mushrooms
8 small white onions
3 tablespoons bouillon
3 teaspoons flour
1/4 cup butter
1 tablespoon minced parsley
2 tablespoons Madeira
1 tablespoon minced chervil
Salt, cayenne
1/2 bay leaf
Melt the butter and cook onions in it for five minutes. Do
not brown. Add the mushrooms that have been washed but not
peeled. Whole mushrooms make the most attractive service, so
slice only the stems. When well coated with butter, add the
minced herbs, the flour, the bouillon and the seasoning. Cook
until the onions are tender-slowly of course. Add the Madeira
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
75I
and cook one minute. Serve garnished with croutons and minced
herbs.
A delicious entrée or specialty for chafing dish parties.
WELSH RAREBIT
1 lb. grated American cheese
1 teaspoon butter
1 teaspoon paprika
1/2 pint ale or beer
Salt and prepared mustard to
taste
Melt the butter and stir so that it oils the bottom of your
pan. (A chafing dish over hot water is ideal.) Add the cheese
and gently stir into it one tablespoon of beer or ale. The cheese
will at once thicken and another tablespoon of beer or ale should
be added. Stir continuously. Add more liquid until the mix-
ture is smooth and velvety. The exact amount of ale varies
with different cheeses. Season to taste and serve on toast. Hot
plates are essential. This will serve six single portions.
HOT WINE SAUCE FOR VENISON, GAME
OR TONGUE
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 cup water
1/2 glass currant jelly
1/2 cup port wine
Juice of 1/2 lemon
3 cloves
Pinch cayenne
1 teaspoon salt
Simmer together for five minutes all ingredients except the
wine. Strain and add the port wine. Add also a little of the
meat gravy. Serve hot.
BRANDIED APPLE FRITTERS
4 medium apples
4 tablespoons brandy
1 egg
1/2 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
Pare the apples, core and slice in circles or cut in segments.
Pour over them the brandy, cover tightly with cooking parch-
ment. Combine the well beaten egg yolk with the sugar and
milk. Add the flour that has been sifted with the salt and bak-
SAUCE SUPERB
2 eggs
1 cup powdered sugar
1 cup whipping cream
4 teaspoons rum
Beat the eggs till thick and lemon colored. Add the sugar
gradually and continue beating. Whip the cream very stiff, add
the rum and combine the two mixtures. The secret of success
in making this sauce is to beat it thoroughly. It will keep for
hours in the refrigerator.
APRICOT RUM WHIP
1 #2 1/2 can apricots
1 tablespoon rum
3/4 cup whipping cream
3 egg whites
Drain the apricots and reserve the juice for beverages. Mash
the fruit through a sieve and combine with the whipped egg
whites and the whipped cream. Fold in the rum and serve cold.
BRANDIED CARAMEL BANANAS
6 bananas
3 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon brandy
3 tablespoons brown sugar
Peel the bananas, divide in halves lengthwise. Melt the butter
and sauté the bananas. Turn when brown on one side. Add the
sugar and, when browned on the other side, add the brandy.
Serve on very hot plates with the brandied sugar atop the
bananas.
CREPES SUZETTE
3/4 cup flour
6 lumps loaf sugar
2 teaspoons sugar
1 orange
1 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons brandy
3/4 cup milk
1/4 cup Grand Marnier Liqueur
3 eggs
1/8 lb. sweet butter
This very famous but really very simple dessert is not dif-
ficult. A more awe-inspiring recipe for the crêpes is common at
754
FROZEN PUDDING WITH RUM
2 eggs
1 cup assorted candied fruit
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 cups milk
1/2 to 3/4 cup rum
1 cup whipping cream
Pinch salt
Cover the chopped candied fruits with rum and cover tightly.
Stand two or three hours. Make a custard of the eggs, sugar,
salt and hot milk. Cool. Fold in the whipping cream, beaten
stiff, and the candied fruits. Pour into a tray of the mechanical
refrigerator and freeze. Beat at the end of an hour and once
or twice afterward to assure even textured cream. At the last
beating, the cream may be placed in small molds or in little in-
dividual paper containers.
PINEAPPLE WITH KIRSCH
Cut a ripe pineapple in slices. Remove the rind and the eyes.
Restack the slices in their original shape. Pass with the pine-
apple a bowl of powdered sugar and a bottle of kirsch.
Canned pineapple is also excellent with kirsch but, when
using it, you gain in flavor by pouring the kirsch over the fruit
and chilling in the refrigerator for an hour or more. Be sure to
cover closely so that all the zest will be part of the fruit. Allow
one tablespoon of kirsch to two slices of canned pineapple.
Many other fruits are delicious accompanied by this mild
liqueur, strawberries, for example.
SYLLABUB
2 cups whipping cream
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon rum
A famous English recipe. Whip the cream stiff, fold in the
sugar and rum. Ripen in the refrigerator for half an hour,
covered, of course. Serve in sherbet glasses.
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
755
STRAWBERRIES CHANTILLY
Wash, stem and cut in half 1 quart ripe strawberries. Cover
with powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons rum. Chill 30 minutes.
Whisk two egg whites stiff, beat in gradually 4 tablespoons
powdered sugar. Fold in the chilled berries. Serve in sherbet
glasses and top with sweetened whipped cream.
TIPSY PUDDING
One of the choice recipes of our Grandmother's era. It ap-
peared in the place of honor on New Year's Day. The secret for
a successful outcome is to use a very stale, very porous cake.
A broken, not cut, sunshine cake at least four days old, should
be soaked in sherry. Allow about one cup sherry to a quarter of
a good sized cake. An hour later cover the cake with a soft
custard flavored with rum. Serve very cold.
OLD FASHIONED WINE JELLY
2 tablespoons granulated
1/2 cup cold water
gelatin
1 cup boiling water
1 cup sherry or Madeira wine
Grated rind 1 orange
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup lemon juice
2/3 cup orange juice
Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft. Dissolve in the
boiling water, add the sugar and other ingredients. Pour into
molds that have been rinsed in cold water. Serve with whipped
cream.
BRANDIED PEACHES
4 lbs. fruit
4 lbs. sugar
1 pint best white brandy
1 egg white
Cloves
3 1/2 cups water
Pare the peaches with a silver knife. Insert 2 cloves in each
whole peach. Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Add the
egg white beaten to a froth. Skim. Put in fruit, one layer at
a time, and boil five minutes or until it may be pierced with a
straw. Remove the fruit to a platter to partially cool. Then
756
pack in glass jars. Return any excess juice to the syrup and boil
about ten minutes more, or till well thickened. Remove from
the fire, add the brandy and pour over the fruit. Seal at once.
White cling stone peaches are particularly good. Six pounds of
fruit will yield about seven pint jars. Improves with age.
HASTY WINE GELATIN
2 packages lemon-flavored
1/2 cup Madeira wine or
gelatin
1/4 cup sherry wine
3 1/2 cups hot water
Dissolve the gelatin in the hot water. When perfectly clear
add the wine. Pour in molds that have been rinsed in cold
water. Serve with whipped cream. Garnish with grated orange
peel on top the whipped cream. Orange flavored gelatin com-
bines well with Madeira.
CLARET LEMONADE
12 cubes ice
Sugar syrup to taste
1 bottle claret
Orange slices
Juice 3 lemons
Half fill a glass pitcher with ice cubes or cracked ice. Add the
lemon juice and a few slices of orange. Fill the pitcher nearly
full with claret and add sugar syrup to taste. Stand twenty to
thirty minutes to blend and ripen.
MULLED CLARET
1 qt. hot claret
1/2 cup sugar
1 piece stick cinnamon
8 cloves
Juice 1 lemon
1/2 lemon sliced
Heat the claret and add the other ingredients. Stir till dis-
solved and serve hot. Doughnuts were served with it in the
nineties.
TUTTI FRUTTI
Into a stone jar put one cup of brandy, the best you own, one
cup sugar and one cup ripe strawberries. Stir thoroughly. As
each fruit comes to the height of its perfection, add it, with a
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
757
cup of sugar for each cup of fruit. No more brandy is indicated.
Be sure to stir at each addition. Large fruits like peaches should
be cut in small pieces. Cherries and plums should be stoned.
Atop vanilla ice cream this is an epicurean delight. Perhaps you
will make enough to use it for preserves.
CHAMPAGNE CUP
1/2 cup Maraschino
2 qts. Champagne
1/2 cup Vermuth
Cucumber rind
1/2 cup Santa Cruz rum
Juice 4 oranges
Sugar to taste
Juice 3 lemons
Sweeten the fruit juices slightly. Combine all the ingredients.
Let stand ten minutes after mixing with a large piece of ice in
a
punch bowl. It's well to use as large a piece of ice as possible,
for it melts more slowly and adds less water to the punch.
EGGNOG, SOUTHERN
4 eggs
4 tablespoons brandy or
1/2 cup whipping cream
whisky
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
Beat the yolks till thick and lemon colored. Slowly beat in the
brandy and sugar. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and the
whipped cream. This must be eaten with a spoon. Excellent.
EGGNOG-OTHER TYPE
4 eggs
4 tablespoons brandy or
4 tablespoons powdered
rum
sugar
3 cups milk
Grating of nutmeg
Beat the egg white to a dry froth. Beat into the egg white the
sugar and then the yolks of the eggs combined with the brandy.
Add the milk and a slight grating of nutmeg. Serve at once.
Famous at New Year's and Christmas.
ZABAGLIONE-
4 egg yolks
Cinnamon
3 tablespoons honey
2 tablespoons Marsala wine
Beat egg yolks with honey until thick and lemon colored in
the top of a double boiler. Add wine gradually. While it heats
continue to use rotary beater. Serve as drink or dessert sauce
with dash of cinnamon.
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
5
Drop and Bag Work.
1
CUP CAKES, PLAIN.
2 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
1 1b. lard.
1 qt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
1 oz. ammonia.
Flavor with mace.
2
N. V. LUNCH CUP CAKES.
3 lbs. sugar.
24 eggs.
21 lbs. butter.
1 1/2 pint milk.
4 lbs. flour
1 oz. soda.
Vanilla icing.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Flavor with vanilla extract.
3
DROP CAKES.
2 1/2 lbs. sugar.
12 eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
4 1/ lbs. flour.
1 OZ. ammonia.
1/2 oz. soda.
Flavor with lemon.
Don't grease your pans.
6
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
4
CURRANT DROPS
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pint milk.
1 1b. lard and butter. 15 eggs.
42 lbs. flour
1 oz. soda.
1 1b. currants
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Flavor with almond extract.
5
CREAM PUFFS.
1 qt. water
1 1b. lard.
1 1b. flour.
20 eggs.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
Let boil on a quick fire; stir in your flour
till the mixture comes off the kettle; work in
2 or 3 eggs at a time; fill with whipped
cream, made of 1 qt. cream, 6 oz. powdered
sugar. Flavor with vanilla.
6
ECL AIRES, CHOC, & VAN.
1 pt. milk
10 OZ. flour.
1/2 pt. oil.
10 eggs.
1/8 oz. amonia.
Mix the same as No. 5, fill with 1/2 qt.
milk, 6 eggs, 3 oz. corn starch, offet 1b. sugar.
Flavor with vanilla,
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
7
7
ROUGH & READY.
3 1b. sugar.
1 qt. milk.
1b. butter.
1 oz. soda.
6 1b. flour.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
12 eggs.
Flavor with vanilla.
Drop in granulated sugar, then put them
on pans, mark with stick (in shape of knife)
three strips one way and three the other.
Don't grease your pans.
8
DROPS.
2 1b. sugar.
1 oz. soda.
3 1b. flour.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
1 2/2 pt. eggs.
1/2 pt. water.
Ice them and dip in cocoanut.
Vanilla
flavor. Grease your pans and dust them.
9
SPONGE DROPS.
2 lbs. sugar half A and half powder.
3 1/ lbs. flour.
1 qt. milk.
10 eggs.
1 oz. soda.
1 OZ. ammonia.
Flavor with lemon.
Ice them, white and chocolate.
8
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
10
SPICE DROPS, PLAIN.
12 oz. powder sugar. 5 lbs. flour.
6 OZ. lard.
1 qt. molasses.
2 OZ. soda.
1 qt. water.
Putin 5eggs last. Flavor with spices.
Don't grease your pans.
11
MOLASSES CUP CAKES.
4 oz. powder sugar.
2 lbs. flour.
6 oz. lard.
1 pt. molasses.
state oz. soda.
1 pt. water.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
2 eggs last.
Put a few currants on top.
12
SPONGE CUP CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
10 eggs.
4 3 1b. flour.
10 yolks.
1 6 OZ. bak'g powder Water icing.
Sprinkle chopped almonds on top.
13
ROSE JUMBLES, (small round tube.)
11 1b. pow'd sugar.
6 eggs.
1 1b. butter
1 flour.
Flavor white rose.
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
9
14
CORN CUP CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
5 eggs.
1/4 1b. butter.
1 qt. milk.
1b. corn meal.
1 cent soda.
1/2 1b. wheat flour.
2 cent cream of tartar.
15
WHEAT MUFFINS.
1/2 1b. sugar.
6 eggs.
1/2 1b. butter.
2 oz. baking powder.
3 lbs. wheat flour.
11 qt. milk.
16
CORN MUFFINS.
2 lbs. corn meal.
4 eggs.
1/2 1b. winter wheat. 1/2 1b. sugar.
qt. milk.
1/2 1b. butter.
3 oz. baking powder.
17
SPICE CUPS.
1 2/2 lbs. flour.
1 pt. molasses.
2/2 1b. cake crumbs.
1 pt. water.
6 oz. sugar.
2 eggs.
4 oz. lard.
Ice with chocolate.
1 oz. soda.
Flavor of spices.
TO
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
18
GEORGIA CUPS.
Lay out your cups with pie crust; fill &
full with the following :
lbs. cake crumbs. 3 eggs.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 pt. water.
1/4 1b. lard.
1/2 pt. molasses.
1/2
1b. currants.
1/2 OZ. ammonia.
1/2 1b. seedless raisins.
Hole in the center; after baking fill with
jelly.
19
LADVFYNGEERS.
10 eggs.
2 yolks.
1 1b. powd. sugar. (hot oven)
1 1b. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
You can also make jelly drops round, jelly
between; lima bean shape; ice with chocolate
and white.
20
CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE DROPS.
6 oz. powd. sugar.
6 yolks.
9 OZ. flour.
9 whites of eggs.
Beat to a froth stir in yolks, then add the
flour and sugar together; dip in chocolate,
(2 drops chocolate between.)
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
II
21
JUMBLES, (star tube.)
3 1b. sugar pow'd.
15 eggs.
3 1b. butter.
A little nutmeg.
42 1b. flour.
Grease your pans light.
22
COCOANUT JUMBLES. (Plain round tube.)
2 1b. pow'd sugar.
15 eggs.
1 1b. butter,
1 qt. milk.
42 1b. flour
1 oz. soda.
1/4 1b. cocoanut.
2 OZ. bream of tartar.
23
CUP CAKES.
3 lbs. powder sugar. 2 lbs. butter.
4* lbs. flour.
Rub sugar, flour and butter in the same
manner as for pie crust; then put in 1 oz.
soda, 2 oz. cream of tartar, a little cinnamon,
1 qt. eggs, 1 qt. milk.
Mix this in nicely, beat up milk and eggs
as for eggwash, add it and work it as little
as possible, just enough to mix it; it will
turn out as level smooth top cup cake as you
wish for icing; use chocolate icing.
I2
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
24
CHOCOLAE JUMBLES, (small ronnd tube)
1: 1b. powd sugar.
10 eggs.
1 1b. butter.
1 oz. chocolate spices.
1/2 1b. flour.
(Small round tube.)
25
MACE JUMBLES.
4 1b. sugar.
8 eggs.
2 1b. butter.
1 qt. milk.
7 1/2 1b. flour.
1 oz. ammonia.
Flavor with mace.
off OZ. soda.
Use the jumble machine also for next.
26
SPICE JUMBLES.
2 qt. molasses
1/2 pint oil.
7 3 qt. water.
4 oz. soda.
5 eggs. 2 1b. crumbs.
6 1b. flour.
Flavor with spices.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
13
Cut Cakes or Cookies.
27
ROCK CAKES.
8 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. eggs.
5 lbs. butter.
12 qt. milk.
18 lbs. flour.
4 oz. amonia.
3 lbs. currants.
Flavor with lemon.
28
ROUGH AND READY.
2 1b. sugar.
8 eggs.
1 1b. lard.
1 pt. of milk.
4 1b. flour.
1 oz. soda.
Flavor with vanilla. 2 oz. cream of tartar.
29
SUGAR CAKES.
12 lbs. sugar.
1/2 qt. eggs.
6 lbs. lard.
3 qt. milk.
27 lbs. flour.
6 oz. ammonia
Flavor with mace.
30
TEA CAKES.
6 lbs. sugar.
2 qt. water.
2 lbs. lard.
3 oz. ammonia.
12 lbs. flour.
(hot oven.)
Flavor with lemon.
14
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
31
LEMON CAKES, (poor.)
10 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. eggs.
5 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
18 lbs. flour.
5 OZ. ammonia.
Flavor with lemon; wash with egg wash;
if you wish to make them run more, add
more powdered sugar. (Hot oven.)
32
LEMON CAKES, (rich.)
3 lbs. granul. sugar. 10 eggs.
1 lbs. butter.
1/2 pt. milk.
41 lbs. flour.
3/2 oz. ammonia.
Wash with egg wash, also.
33
JELLY TARTS.
1 1b. sugar.
6 eggs.
1/4 pt. milk.
11 lbs. butter.
2 lbs. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
Cut round like cookies, use 1 pint whites,
lbs. sugar for marange rings on top of
your cookies; dot in the middle, sift over
with sugar, let them get a hard crust in a
cool oven put some jelly in a bag and fill
the empty ring with it.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
15
34
COCOANUT JUMBLES.
12 lbs. sugar.
2 pt. eggs.
6 lbs. butter.
3 pt. milk.
18 lbs. flour.
6 oz. baking powder.
1/2
1b. cocoanut.
Wash and throw in cocoanut.
35
ICING STICKS.
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
1 1b. lard.
1 pt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
1/2 oz. amonia.
Flavor with vanilla; ice with white of egg
icing; let them dry before baking.
36
MACAROON TARTS.
Cut out as cookies, put them on pans
(same mixture as in 33) put on ring of
macaroon mixture (look up No. 61) before
baking; when done put some water icing
inside the ring and a small dot chocolate
icing in the middle.
16
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
37
GINGER CAKES.
3 lbs. sugrar.
4 qt. molasses.
2 lbs. lard.
2 qt. water.
18 lbs. flour.
1 pt. eggs.
Ginger.
8 OZ. soda.
Wash with water.
38
CRIMEL CAKES.
10 lbs. crumbs.
3 qt. water.
5 lbs. sugar.
2 qt. molasses.
12 lbs. flour.
1 pt eggs.
5 OZ. amonia.
Flavor with spices.
Granulated sugar on top.
39
CRIMEL CAKES.
3 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
2 lbs. lard.
2 pt. molasses.
1 OZ. soda.
6 lbs. flour.
1/2 pt. water.
3 lbs. crumbs.
Flavor with spices.
Wash with egg wash.
40
BROWN MARCIPAN.
4 lbs. sugar.
2 gal. molasses.
4 lbs. lard.
1 gral. water.
1/2 lbs. soda.
Flour till stiff enough.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
17
41
LEB CAKES.
4 gal. molasses.
4 lbs. crumbs.
1 2/2 gal. water.
2 lbs. soda.
1/2 gral. oil.
Anis and spices.
Flour as stiff as sugar cake, cut out
square, bake and ice single.
42
LEB CAKES.
1/2 1b. lard.
2 qt. molasses.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 qt. water.
1/4 1b. soda.
8 lbs. flour.
Put them close together; ice with brush
white of egg icing.
43
HONEY LEB CAKES.
1/4 1b.almonds, chop'd. 1/4 1b. citron, fine.
1 4 1b. sugar.
1 pt. molasses.
1/4 1b. butter.
1 pt. honey.
42 lbs. flour.
1/2 pt. water.
2 oz. soda.
4 eggs.
Bake close together; cook sugar for icing;
the icing is made of 5 lbs. sugar; 1 qt. water;
36°
18
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
44
PEPPER NUTS.
1 1b. sugar.
1/2 pt. water.
1/4 1b. lard.
2 pt. molasses.
5 eggs.
2 OZ. soda.
5 1b. flour.
Flavor with spices and ginger.
When baked put them in a wooden
bowl, pour on some sugar and keep stirring
it slowly until dry, then put on more sugar
gradually; will get white when dry.
45
COMMON SUGAR CAKES.
4 lbs. sugar.
8 eggs.
2 lbs. lard.
1 qt. milk.
8 lbs. flour.
2 oz. ammonia.
46
FRENCH GINGERSNAPS.
2 lbs. sugar, (brown) 1 qt. water.
4 lbs. crumbs.
1 oz. ammonia.
1/2 lbs. flour.
11 lbs. lard.
Flavor with spices.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
19
47
CONN. GINGER COOKIES.
2 pt. molasses.
1 1b. lard.
1 pt. water.
3/2 1b. sugar.
2 oz. soda.
4 lbs. flour.
Roll in round pieces, put them in pans
and flatten them a little.
48
GINGER SNAPS, (large.)
3 lbs. granulated sugar.
2 oz. soda.
1 lbs. lard.
1 pt. molasses.
5 lbs. flour.
1 pt. water.
49
GINGER SNAPS, (large.)
2 lbs. sugar.
2 qt. molasses.
2 lbs. lard.
1 qt. water.
10 lbs. flour.
4 oz. soda.
Ginger and cinnamon.
50
CINNAMON JUMBLES.
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
2 lbs. butter.
1 pt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
1 oz. ammonia.
1/2 1b. crumbs.
Cinnamon.
20
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
51
NEW YEAR SEED CAKES.
2 lbs. sugar.
11 qt. milk.
11 lbs. butter.
1 OZ. soda.
41 lbs. flour.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Rub sugar, flour and butter as you would
for pie crust; add your soda and cream of
tartar, then mix the whole with the milk,
1 OZ. carraway seed; wash with milk. (hot
oven.)
52
WHITE MARCIPAN
8 lbs. sugar.
3 oz. ammonia
1/2 1b. lard.
3 qt water.
16 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
53
CINNAMON STICKS.
4 lbs. sugar.
16 eggs.
42 lbs. flour.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
After icing them let dry before baking.
54
PEANUT CAKE.
1 1b. peanuts, roasted 15 eggs.
4 lbs. sugar.
1/4 oz. ammonia
4 lbs. flour.
Water icing when baked.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
21
55
FRUIT STICKS.
2 lbs. sugar.
1 1b. almonds.
2 lbs. flour.
1 1b. currants.
8 eggs.
1/2 1b. citron.
1/6 oz. ammonia
Same as peanut.
Flavor with spices, dry before baking.
56
VANILLA STICKS.
4 lbs. sugar.
20 eggs.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
5 lbs. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
White of egg icing, let dry before baking.
57
LITTLE ANIS DROPS.
1 1b sugar.
7 eggs,
1 1b. flour.
(beat like sponge.)
Dry well before baking.
58
LANGENBURGER VANILLA.
1 1b. ornamenting sugar.
10 white of eggs to a froth.
14 oz flour.
Vanilla the same as Anis Drops; drop out
with the bag.
22
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
59
LEMON SNAPS FOR MACHINE. (3 nails)
6 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
2 oz. ammonia.
1 lbs. lard.
1 qt. milk.
10 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
60
GINGER SNAPS FOR MAHCINE, (3 mails.)
18 lbs. gran. sugar.
8 lbs. lard.
4 1/2 qt. molasses, dark. 45 lbs. flour.
qt. molasses, light. 1b. soda.
3 qt. water.
splet 1b. ginger.
4 OZ. salt.
1 oz. acid.
Wash them before baking.
61
MACAOON FOR MACHINE, (4 nails)
5 lbs. almond paste 5 lbs. powd. sugar.
30 to 40 whites.
1/2 lbs. gran. sugar.
Flavor with vanilla.
62
PEPPER NUTS FOR MACHINE, 4 nails.
4 qt. molasses.
16 lbs. flour.
1 qt. water.
1/4 1b. soda.
1/2 qt. oil.
10 eggs.
Flavor with spices, ginger, anis and pepper.
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
23
63
JUMBLES (use cutter.)
11 lbs. gran sugar. 1/2 oz. ammonia.
3/2 1b. butter.
4 eggs.
1 gill water.
3 lbs. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
64
JUMBLES, (Fried Cake Cutter)
1 2/2 lbs. sugar.
8 eggs.
3 4 oz. ammonia.
3 + 1b butter.
1/2 pt. water.
31 flour.
Flavor with lemon.
65
LEAF CAKES, (leaf cutter.)
1 1b. powd. sugar.
12 eggs.
butter.
3 4 ammonia.
31 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon and mace.
66
GEORGIA LEMON WAFERS.
2 lbs. sugar.
9 eggs.
lbs. butter.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
Cut in small pieces, and flatten in the pan.
24
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
67
SUSBERRY CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
4 eggs.
10 oz. butter.
1/2 gill water.
1 oz. ammonia.
Flavor with nutmeg.
Flour to make it stiff; cut out round; use
your fingers to make shape of a star.
68
GINGER NUTS.
1 qt. molasses.
3/2 1b. lard.
1/4 qt. water.
1/4 1b. granul. sugar.
2 oz. soda.
1/2 cornmeal.
21 lbs. flour.
1 1b. crumbs.
For Ginger cookies see No. 47.
69
HALF MOONS.
1 1b. butter.
4 eggs.
1 1b powd. sugar.
1/2 pt. milk.
1 2/2 lbs. flour.
OZ. ammonia.
1/2 1b. crumbs.
Work as little as possible; roll one long
strip as for sticks; flatten it, then ice with
white of egg frosting, and cut your half
moons; use sugar cake cutter.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
25
70
HONEY CAKES.
1 qt. honey.
1/2 pt. oil.
1 qt. molasses.
of qt. water.
5 eggs.
8 lbs. flour.
Flavor with anis and spices.
Bake single; ice with thin white of egg
frosting.
71
BUTTER S.
1 1b. flour.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
1 2/2 lbs. butter.
2 lbs. flour.
5 eggs.
Flavor with lemon.
Work it as little as possible, make small
pieces in shape of an S, wash with egg,
granulated sugar on top.
72
GERMAN COOKIES.
Use this same mixture; cut out in round
cakes; after baking ice them half white and
half chocolate.
73
RAILROAD STICKS.
Roll out one long strip as for sticks; use
bag to make two lines on top the long strip
(not too close together) fill the empty space
with jelly; cut after baking.
26
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
74
COCOANUT WAFFLES.
18 OZ. sugar.
10 eggs.
12 oz. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
Drop out with a table spoon on a light
greased pan; spread it as much as you can
with your spoon about like a sugar cooky;
put a little cocoanut on each, then bake in a
quick oven; bake them very light, use a
stick (as thick as a cigar) and roll it up
while hot, press the stick down well on the
end of each waffle; you can serve them with
ice cream or fill them with whipped cream.
75
ALMOND WAFFLES.
1/2 1b. macaroon mixture as in No. 61;
make it as thin as No. 47 with white of
egg; use like the cocoanut waffles.
76
CINNAMON WAFFLES.
4 oz. sugar.
1 OZ. almonds, fine.
4 oz. flour.
2 eggs.
Flavor with cinnamon.
Make it as thin as No. 74; use the same
way.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
27
77
DIAMOND CUTS.
3 lbs. sugar, brown. 12 eggs.
1 lbs. butter.
1/2 pt. milk.
5 lbs. flour.
1
OZ. ammonia.
Flavor with spices.
Scale of lbs. dough as No. 78; made it
long; 3 on a pan, (use egg wash) cut them
after baking.
78
ALMOND BREAD SLICES.
4 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. eggs.
7 lbs. flour.
1 pt. milk.
1 1b. almonds.
1 OZ. ammonia.
Scale off 1 1/2 lbs., roll it the length of pan,
3 on a pan; wash with egg wash after flat-
tening them some; when baked ice with
white of egg frosting.
79
ANOTHER, RICH,
6 lbs. sugar.
36 eggs.
9 lbs. flour.
oz. ammonia.
4 lbs. almonds.
1/2 citron.
Flavor with vanilla.
Use it like No. 78.
28
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
80 A.
FRIED CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
1 qt. milk.
1/4 1b. lard.
6 eggs.
4 lbs. flour.
1/2 baking powder.
Flavor with mace and lemon.
80 B.
FRIED CAKES, (Cheap mixture.)
1 1b. sugar.
1 2/2 qt. milk.
1/4 lbs. lard.
42 lbs. flour.
2 eggs.
4 oz. bak'g powder.
Flavor with cinnamon.
81
SODA BISCUITS.
9 lbs. flour.
3 qt. milk.
11 lbs. lard.
2 oz. soda.
2 OZ. salt.
5 oz. cream of tartar.
82
CREAM CRULLERS, (Use as No. 5.)
1 qt. water.
1 lbs. flour.
1 1b. lard.
1 qt. eggs.
(No ammonia.)
Use bag and star tube to make rings on
greased paper; when your oil is hot enough,
catch hold on one end of the paper and
throw it in upside down; paper will come off
easily. Bake like fried cakes.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
29
83
BOSTON BROWN BREAD.
9 lbs. B. B. B. flour. 21 qt. water.
3 1/2 oz. soda.
1/2 molasses.
Bake in 1/2 lbs. loaves one hour; it is well
to put some water in the pan.
84
BOSTON BROWN BREAD.
1 cup of rye and graham flour.
1 cup of wheat flour.
2 cups indian meal.
1 scant cup molasses.
1 scant cup sour milk.
2 scant cups water.
2 teaspoonsful soda.
1/2 teaspoonful salt.
Steam for 3 hours and dry in an oven for
1/4 hour.
Loaf and Large Cakes.
85
AL MOND TARTS.
1/2 lbs. sugar.
1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 1b. almond paste.
30 eggs.
30
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
86
CHOC. ALMOND SPONGE CAKE.
lbs. sugar.
30 yolks.
1/2 1b. almond paste 20 whites, to a froth.
1/2 1b. flour.
2 OZ. chocolate
1/2 breadcrumbs
Flavor with spices.
87
ALMOND CAKE, (English.)
1/2 1b. fine almonds. 1 1b. sugar.
10 eggs.
Flavor with vanilla.
1/4 1b. crackers, smashed and sifted.
Beat up like sponge.
88
BREAD SPONGE.
1/4 1b. almonds, rubbed fine.
2 oz. breadcrumbs, with a little rum.
4 OZ. sugar.
8 eggs, when light.
1 OZ. chocolate.
2 oz. flour.
2 oz. citron.
Flavor with spices.
89
MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE.
1 qt. molasses.
4 eggs.
1 qt. water.
12-2 oz. soda.
1 1b. lard and butter
1
1b. sugar.
2 1b. raisins.
5 lbs. flour.
2 1b. currants.
1/2 1b. citron.
Bake slow.
Flavor with spices
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
31
90
STRAWEEY SHORT CAKE,
42 lbs. flour.
1/2 qt. milk.
1b. lard or butter. 1 oz. soda.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Make it in two layers, with one layer of
strawberries between. Beat 10 whites of
eggs to a froth and put it on top; smooth
it and cut in squares with a berry on each
corner and one in the middle.
91
FANCY SHORT CAKE,
Use two layers of sponge cake, and put
whipped cream on top; ornament each
square nicely.
92
WINE CAKE.
5 1b. A. sugar.
30 eggs.
3 1b. lard.
2 qt. milk.
81 1b. flour.
1/2 1b. baking powder.
Flavor with mace and lemon.
93
WINE CAKE,
3 1b. A. sugar.
16 eggs.
1 1/2 1b. lard
1 qt. milk.
4 1b. flour
1 oz. soda.
2 oz. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
32
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
94
WINE CAKE.
1/2 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
3 1b. butter.
1 pt. milk.
2 1/2 1b. flour.
2 oz. baking powder.
For wine cakes rub sugar and lard light,
add your eggs, etc., and beat in your flour.
95
MOLASSES POUND CAKE,
4 OZ. powd. sugar.
6 OZ. butter.
1 pt. milk.
2 lbs. flour.
4 eggs.
1 OZ. soda.
1 pt. New Orleans Syrup.
Flavor with spices.
96
JELLY ROLLS, (for 4 rolls.)
2 pt. eggs.
2% lbs. powd. sugar.
1 pt. milk.
3 1/ lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
2 OZ. cream of tartar.
Flavor with lemon.
Each roll makes four 10 cent pieces.
97
LAYER CAKES.
2 1b. sugar.
22 lbs. flour.
1 pint milk.
4 oz. bak'g powder.
Rub with 12 eggs.
Flavor with lemon.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
33
98
SPONGE CAKE.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
12 eggs.
1 1b. flour.
Makes 3 one pound cakes.
99
I SPONGE CAKE CHARIOTTE RUSSE.
1 1b. sugar.
15 eggs.
offer 1b. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
Cut in sticks to fill pans; dissolve 1/4 ounce
gelatine in a little cream, add one qt.
whipped cream and 6 oz. sugar.
100
ANGEL FOOD.
1/2 lbs. powd. sugar. 1 qt. whites.
2/2 1b. patent flour. Beat to a froth.
1 oz. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
Mix sugar, flour and cream of tartar well
and sift it several times before you work it
in with the froth; dip your pans in water,
put them upside down before you beat your
eggs; when ready, scale off 7 oz.; it will
make 8; bake slow; as soon as they come out,
turn them upside down and leave them until
they are quite cold. Ice with water icing.
34
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
101
SPICE CAKE.
1 lbs. flour.
4 OZ. sugar.
1 1b. crumbs.
6 oz. butter.
1 pt. water.
1 oz. soda.
1 qt. molasses
2 eggs.
Flavor with spices.
102
VANILLA ROLLS.
10 oz. powd. sugar. 1 pt. of whites.
5
oz. winter wheat. 2 oz. corn starch.
1/2 OZ. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
Mix as No. 101; bake in a square pan, take
out carefully when cold; put on vanilla water
icing as you would jelly roll, and roll it; ice
the top also.
103
ROLLS.
1 1b. sugar.
13 eggs.
14 oz. winter wheat. Flavor with vanilla.
Bake on paper in a quick oven; roll up
while hot; put in chocolate icing instead of
jelly.
104
CURRANT CAKE,
12 lbs. sugar.
8 eggs.
10 oz. lard.
1 pt. milk.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 oz. soda.
1 1b. currants.
1 OZ. cream of tartar.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
35
105
SILVER CAKE.
3 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. white of eggs.
2 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
2 oz. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
106
GOLD CAKE.
Use yolks instead the white of egg.
Rest the same as in 105.
107
JELLY SQUARE, (for one large.)
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
1 1b. lard.
4 pt. milk.
6 lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
3 oz. cream of tartar. (hot oven)
Bake in two pans; put together with jelly;
on top white icing and jelly stripes.
108
COCOANUT SQUARE.
1 1/2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
1 1b. butter.
11 pt. milk.
3 lbs. flour.
3 oz. bak'g powder.
For top use 1 pt. of whites, 2 lbs. powd.
sugar.
Sprinkle with cocoanut.
36
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
109
POUND CAKE.
3 lbs. sugar.
36 eggs.
3 lbs. butter.
3 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon and mace; (slow oven)
110
FRUIT CAKE.
To 3 lbs. sugar use the following:
6 lbs. currant.
1/2 gill brandy.
3 lbs. raisins.
1 oz. cinnamon.
1 1b. citron, cut fine.
1 gill molasses and lemon.
1 oz. cloves and nutmeg.
Flavor with mace.
111
LADY CAKE.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
1 1b. flour.
1 1b. butter.
1 pt. whites.
Flavor with almond.
Rub in half of your flour with the butter
after using half the eggs.
112
WHITE FRUIT CAKE.
To 1 1b. sugar use 1 1b. citron, 1/2 1b.
blanched almonds, 1/2 1b. sliced cocoanut,
(bake very slow).
Flavor with vanilla.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
37
113
GARFIELD SQUARE,
3 lbs. sugar.
1 oz. soda.
1b. lard.
1/2 oz. ammonia.
4 lbs. flour.
3 pt. sour milk.
Make two square pans; use 1 pt. molasses
for layer in the middle of the two, (No. 95)
jelly between; and on top jelly with cocoa-
nut.
114
SUNSHINE CAKE,
1 lbs. sugar.
speak 1b. patent flour.
1/20 of teaspoonful cream of tarar.
1/20 of teaspoonful baking powder.
1 qt. of whites to a froth; add 6 yolks.
Lemon flavor, the rest as in No. 100.
115
BUTTER SPONGE.
13 eggs.
1 1b. sugar.
3 yolks beat up as for sponge cake (warm);
then add 8 oz. hot butter (skim off); put in
1 lbs. flour; 1/2 teaspoonful baking powder;
bake like pound cake.
116
SULTANA CAKE,
1 1b. sugar.
9 eggs.
1 gill milk.
1 1b. butter.
1 oz. baking powder. 1 lbs. flour.
1 lbs. raisins.
Flavor with mace.
38
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK
117
COFFEE FLAVORED CAKE.
1 lbs. brown sugar. & butter and lard.
1 pt. strong coffee. 7 eggs.
24 lbs. flour.
1 1b. currants.
2 oz. bak'g powder. 1 tablespoon molasses.
Flavor with spices.
118
GERMAN OLGA CAKE.
Make a round layer of macaroon mixture;
put 20 to 24 macaroons on this layer and
bake; bake the same number of macaroons
of a smaller size to go on top of this and a
still smaller size to go on top. Add two
more layers of butter sponge with chocolate
between and chocolate iced; put it on the
first layer and ornament it.
119
WHITE KISSES.
6 whites of eggs to a froth.
1 1b. sugar; cocoanut, chocolate and plain.
120
COFFEE KISSES.
3 lbs. sugar, 1 pt. strong coffee. Cook to
the soft ball 40°; 12 whites to a froth.
Pour in sugar slowly and keep stirring it,
when cold bake on a smooth board.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
39
121
KISSES.
7 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. whites
1/4 1b. cocoa.
Warm this mixture, put on greased pans,
(drop out round). When dry baked in a slow
oven. Kettle and egg water for kisses
should not be used for anything else, unless
you clean them thoroughly.
122
SUNSHINE KISSES.
5 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. yolks.
10 oz. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
Rub sugar well in half the yolks. Bake
on paper when dry.
123
STEAMED KISSES.
30 whites beat to a grood froth; add gradu-
ally 4 lbs. ornamenting sugar, beating it all
the time; then put it on steam and beat it,
having it well warmed up; when cold put it
on pans, any shape you desire.
124
GUM PASTE KISSES, (Tragand.)
2 oz. tragand, soaked for a few days in 1 1/
lbs. water, rub with 14 lbs. powd. sugar, 3
oz. alcohol; roll out thin; dip cutter in a
damp sponge; put on paper upside down;
when dry bake slow.
40
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
125
SHAM CONFECT.
5 lbs. sugar; cook to the soft ball 40°; 20
whites beat to a froth; beat it lively while
pouring in the sugar; when cold put on
light greased pans.
126
PASTRY.
1 1b. flour, 2/2 to 1 1b. butter; roll out 3 or
4 times. For Sugar Pretzels, Cream Rolls
and Slices, Oyster Patties, etc.
127
CHEESE STICKS.
1 lbs. flour.
6 oz. butter.
4 yolks.
1/2 oz. bak'g powder.
Mix with water and roll in 1/2 1b. butter,
with 1/2 1b. grated American Cheese; balance
like Pastry.
128
PIE CRUST.
4 lbs. flour.
1 oz. bak'g powder.
2 lbs. butter
1 qt. water.
Use milk to to wash pies with Washing
bottom with thick eggwash will prevent
pies from bursting.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
4I
129
CUSTARD FOR TWO LARGE PIES.
4 OZ. sugar.
1 qt. milk.
1 scant teaspoonful corn starch.
6 eggs.
Flavor with vanilla.
130
BOILED COCOANUT CUSTARD.
2 qt. milk.
6 oz. corn starch.
10 oz. sugar.
6 eggs.
8 OZ. cocoanut.
1 oz. butter.
Mix cornstarch with eggs.
131
PUMPKIN FOR FIVE.
1 can of pumpkin.
11 qt. milk.
16 oz. sugar.
1/2 qt. eggs.
5 oz. flour.
Flavor with cinnamon
1 tablespoonful molasses.
132
FINE LEMON CREAM FOR PIES.
2 lbs butter, well washed; 6 lbs. sugar;
10 qt. water; let this boil for 5 minutes.
Then grate 2 lemons on sugar; add juice of
15 lemons; 16 eggs, 1 lbs. corn starch; beat
up well in a large stone jar, pour in boil-
ing sugar and keep stirring it until smooth
42
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
133
For a gallon of canned fruit, apples,
peaches, etc , use 1 1b. sugar.
134
BUTTER BISCUITS.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 qt. water.
1/2 1b. butter.
3 eggs.
Flavor with lemon, mace and almonds.
135 A.
GERMAN NAPFUCHEN.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 qt. water.
states 1b. butter.
1 OZ. salt.
4 eggs.
Raisins, citron, lemon and mace. Use
Fleischman's Yeast for 134 and 135 A.
135 B.
FILLING FOR CHEESE CAKE.
2 lbs. cheese.
3 eggs.
3 yolks
1/2 1b. sugar.
3 OZ. flour.
1/4 1b. butter.
1 pint milk.
Cinnamon.
136
COCOANUT MACAROONS.
2/2 pt whites to a froth. 1 1b. cocoanut.
5 oz. flour.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
43
137
MACAOON STICKS.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
3 whites.
3/2 1b almond paste.
1 egg.
1b. flour.
Use white of egg icing; when dry bake in
a slow oven.
138
CINNAMON STICKS.
1 1b. almonds (chopped and sifted; off 1b.
ornamenting sugar; 6 whites to a froth.
Use white of egg icing, same as 137.
139
ALMOND CONFECT. S.
1 1b. paste, stiff mixture, 1/2 1b. sugar.
Wash with dissolved gelatine. Put citron
or cherries on top.
140
ALMOND CAKES.
1/2 1b chopped almonds 1/2 1b. powd. sugar.
5 whites to a froth. 1/4 1b. flour.
Vanilla flavor. Spread on pans with fork
in shape of a round cooky.
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Mix up the bread at eleven o'clock and let it
rise. At four o'clock roll out and cut into biscuits
two sizes, putting the small one on top and let it
rise till supper. Bake twenty minutes.
FRENCH BISCUIT
Mrs. Joseph Holt
4 pints of flour,
4 eggs,
4 teaspoons of sugar,
1 tablespoonful of butter,
1 teacup of yeast,
1 pint of sweet milk.
Work it well and let it rise. Work it the second
time and roll the dough thin. Cut out the biscuit,
lard one side and place one on top of another and
let it rise again.
SODA BISCUITS
1 quart flour,
1 pint of buttermilk,
1 tablespoon lard,
1/ teaspoon soda,
teaspoon salt,
Make into biscuits and bake quickly.
4
BREADS
BREAD - CRUMB BATTER
CAKES FOR BREAKFAST
One pint of bread-crumbs, moistened with milk
several hours before using. When ready to use,
beat an egg separately and add
1 pinch of salt,
1 pint of buttermilk,
1 teaspoon of soda.
Mix well and add 1 large spoon of flour to
make them turn well. Fry as you would any other
batter cake.
If wanted particularly nice, take half butter-
milk and half cream, instead of all buttermilk, or
use sweet milk with baking-powder and omit soda.
BREAD FRITTERS
E. D. P.
1 quart of sweet milk,
2 teacups of bread-crumbs,
2 tablespoons of sugar,
1 small teaspoon of soda,
2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, dissolved in warm
water,
2 eggs,
nutmeg and salt to taste,
5
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Boil the milk and soak the bread-crumbs. Add
sugar, then yolks of eggs, etc., and put soda and
cream of tartar last. Beat the 2 whites in last.
BROWN BREAD
V. C. G.
Set a sponge just as for white bread. Instead of
adding white flour, make of equal parts of graham
and rye flour. One cup of black molasses and
water enough to moisten. Stir with a spoon, and
do not knead as white bread. Bake in pans.
BUCKWHEAT CAKES
For breakfast cakes the batter must be made and
put to rise the night before in a warm place.
1 quart buckwheat flour,
4 tablespoons yeast,
1 teaspoon salt,
1 tablespoon molasses,
Warm water enough to make a thin batter.
If the batter should be sour when ready for use,
add a little soda. Serve with syrup or honey.
6
BREADS
CORN B R E A D
BATTER BREAD
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
1 cup of boiled rice,
1 pint of sifted meal,
2 well-beaten eggs,
A little salt,
Small piece of melted butter or lard,
1 teaspoon baking-powder,
Sweet milk to make a rather thin batter.
Pour in a well-greased earthen baking dish and
bake a half hour or more in a hot oven.
KENTUCKY BATTER BREAD
1 pint meal,
3 eggs,
1 teaspoon salt,
1 tablespoon melted butter.
Make a thin batter with sweet milk. Pour in a
baking-dish and bake of an hour, or till it is a
rich brown.
7
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SOFT BATTER BREAD
Mrs. H. C. McDowell
1 quart sweet milk,
1 pint sour cream or buttermilk,
1 pint of corn meal,
1 teaspoon soda,
1 dessertspoon salt,
6 eggs,
1 lump of butter size of an egg.
Bring milk to the boiling point, add the meal
gradually until it is like thin mush, add butter and
salt and let it cool. Then add some cream in which
soda is dissolved, then the eggs well beaten sepa-
rately and bake in a moderate oven. Cover till it
is risen. This amount is sufficient for 8 people.
MARCELLUS'S CORN
MUFFINS (No. 1)
1 pint buttermilk,
1/2 pint corn meal,
1 teaspoon soda,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
1 egg,
1 tablespoon melted lard.
8
BREADS
Beat the egg, add soda to buttermilk and 1
tablespoon melted lard and mix together. Have
muffin-rings hot and well greased and fill half full
and cook brown.
CORN MUFFINS (No. 2)
1 pint of buttermilk,
1/2 pint of white corn meal,
1 teaspoon of soda,
1/2 teaspoon of salt,
1 egg,
1 large kitchen spoon of rich cream,
1 large kitchen spoon of cooked rice or grits.
Mash the hominy till very smooth. Add salt,
egg, and cream. Mix buttermilk and soda and
pour in mixture. Beat the meal in last. Don't
make the batter too stiff. Have muffin-rings hot
and well greased. Fill nearly full and bake in a
hot, quick oven.
MARCELLUS'S CORN-MEAL
BATTER CAKES
1 tablespoon lard,
1 pint corn meal,
1 pint of sour milk,
9
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1 small teaspoon soda in milk and stir till it foams,
1 egg,
1/2 teaspoon salt.
Beat egg and pour milk over it and add meal.
Then mix in the melted lard, 1 tablespoonful.
Have griddle very hot and well greased and put on
with spoon in small cakes and fry.
E G G BREAD
Pour a little boiling water over 1 quart of meal
to scald it. Add a teaspoon of salt and stir in yolks
of 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon of lard, and
butter melted. Add the well-beaten whites last.
Bake in moderate oven till well done-nearly an
hour.
JOHNNIE CAKE
1 quart meal,
1 pint warm water,
1 teaspoon salt.
Sift meal in a pan and add water and salt. Stir
it until it is light, and then place on a new,
clean board and place nearly upright before the
fire. When brown, cut in squares, butter nicely,
and serve hot.
10
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SPOON CORN BREAD
3 eggs,
nearly a quart of buttermilk,
1 teacup of sweet milk,
a light teaspoonful of soda,
lard the size of a walnut,
4 or 5 large spoonfuls of corn meal (after it is
sifted).
Bake in an earthen dish an hour. Serve with a
spoon.
HANOVER ROLLS
Miss Dabney
Sift twice 2 quarts of flour,
Add 4 tablespoons yeast,
Add 1 tablespoon lard or butter,
1 tablespoon sugar,
1 dessertspoon salt and a pinch of soda.
Use enough lukewarm water to make the mass
soft enough to knead well, and put where it will
rise. When light, grease the hands and make into
rolls. Let it rise again and then bake.
12
BREADS
HOW TO MAKE BREAD
Mrs. John C. Berryman
1 cup of yeast,
1 quart of flour,
1 teaspoon of lard,
1 teaspoon of salt,
1 teaspoon of granulated sugar,
1/2 pint of water.
Put the yeast, lard, salt, and sugar in the flour,
then the water. Work till it blisters, which will
take from 15 to 20 minutes. Put in a little lard
on top and put in a wooden bowl. Let it rise from
5 to 6 hours, then make out into rolls. Let them
rise for 11 hours, then bake in a quick oven.
If for loaves, they will require 2 hours for sec-
ond rising and a moderate oven for baking.
LAPLANDS
1 pint milk,
1/2 pint flour,
2 eggs,
1 dessertspoon lard.
Beat separately and light as for cake. Bake in
small shallow pans.
13
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
LIGHT ROLLS
2 pints flour,
1 tablespoon of sugar,
1 teaspoon salt,
2 eggs,
1/2 cup of lard,
1/2 cup of home-made yeast.
First mix lard, flour, and sugar. Then stir in
other ingredients. Add enough milk and warm
water to make thin batter. Set in warm place to
rise, and then work in flour to make pretty stiff
dough and very smooth. If put to rise at 12, will
be ready at 6. Don't work much last time. Make
out in pretty shape and put to rise, and bake in
quick oven.
MUFFINS
Mrs. Richard H. Hanson
4 eggs,
1 quart sweet milk,
1 quart flour,
1 tablespoon melted butter,
A little salt.
Beat the eggs separately. Add milk and butter
to yolks and then the flour. Add whites last and
bake in hot muffin-irons.
14
BREADS
CREAM MUFFINS
1 1/2 pints flour,
2 eggs.
Use whites of eggs only. Mix eggs and little
cream, little salt, and then the flour. Use enough
cream to make batter right consistency. Grease
muffin-irons. When hot, pour half full and bake
quickly.
MARCELLUS'S WHEAT
MUFFINS
2 cups flour,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1 teaspoon salt,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
2 tablespoons sugar,
1 cup milk,
1 well-beaten egg,
Bake in muffin tins and serve hot.
POPOVERS
Mrs. Ellet Cabell
Beat 2 eggs very stiff and add 1 cup of milk, 1
cup of flour, and a pinch of salt. Have small tins
15
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
very hot and well buttered. Fill half full with the
mixture, bake in a quick oven 20 minutes and eat
at once.
RICE CAKES
Cook 1 cup of rice, and add to it 1/2 cup of cream,
1 teaspoon baking-powder, 2 tablespoons flour, 2
eggs, well beaten. Fry in lard or butter just
enough to grease skillet.
RUSK OR SWEET BREAD
1 pint of flour,
1 pint of white sugar,
1 teacup of melted lard,
12 pints of water,
2 kitchen spoons of yeast.
Make into a batter at night, set in a warm place
to rise. The next morning work into this sponge
2 beaten eggs,
3 pints of flour.
Set in a warm place to rise again. When light,
make into pretty shapes let rise again, and when
light, bake. Spread on the rolls when warm white
of an egg and sifted cinnamon.
The dough should be as soft as you con make it
to work well.
16
BREADS
SALLY LUNN (No. 1)
1 teaspoon salt,
1 quart flour,
1 pint of sweet milk,
1/2 cup of sugar,
1 small cup of yeast.
Make a batter and put in warm place to rise,
and in 3 hours, when it is light enough, add 5 eggs
which have been beaten separately, 1/2 cup of melted
butter. Add 1/2 pint flour to make a stiff batter.
Spread in pans 1 inch thick, and let rise, then bake.
Serve two at a time with melted butter between.
S ALLY LUNN (No. 2)
Bake Sally Lunn exactly as a loaf of bread, with
steady heat. It requires a longer time, however.
Do not make the batter too thin.
1 pint of milk,
3 eggs,
1 tablespoon of butter or nice sweet lard,
1 dessertspoon of sugar,
1 small teacup of yeast, and flour to make batter
thick enough for the spoon to stand straight. This
makes delicious drop muffins. If the batter is too
thin it is apt to fall before it is thoroughly baked
17
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
and leave the inside of it a dough; if too thick, it
is only French rolls.
SALLY LUNN (No. 3)
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
pints flour,
3 eggs,
1 tablespoon white sugar,
1/2 cup melted butter,
1 teacup yeast,
1 pint milk.
Make into a stiff batter, having beaten ingredi-
ents well together. Let it rise for 5 hours. Then
add 1/2 teaspoon of soda in a little warm water and
pour the batter in a well-greased cake mould.
Bake 40 minutes and serve hot with butter.
SALT-RISING - BREAD (No. 1)
pint of milk,
2 tablespoons of corn meal,
1 teaspoon of salt,
1 tablespoon of lard,
1 tablespoon of white sugar.
Pour boiling milk over salt and meal and stir
well. Set to rise at night. Next morning add
18
EGGS
OMELET
6 eggs beaten separately,
1 cup of milk,
1 tablespoon of butter.
Mix milk, yolks, butter, salt, and pepper, and
add the whites last. Pour into a hot pan which
has been well buttered, and cook quickly on top of
oven. When it begins to thicken, put inside the
oven and brown. Cut in half and roll and serve
hot at once. All omelets should be served imme-
diately.
MARCELLUS' OMELET
4 eggs beaten separately,
1 cup of bread-crumbs,
1 teaspoon butter, salt and pepper to taste,
1 cup of milk.
Add the milk to the yolks, also the crumbs and
other ingredients. Beat the whites in last. Have
the skillet moderately hot, pour in and cook till it
settles. Then bake in oven till a rich brown.
Double the omelet and serve at once.
25
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
CLAM SOUP
24 clams,
gallon water,
2 tablespoons butter,
2 onions,
Salt and pepper to taste.
Chop the clams and use the meat and liquor and
add the water. Do not boil, but cook gently till it
begins to thicken. Season, and just before taking
from the stove add 1 pint cream or rich milk.
Pour in tureen, add a little parsley, and serve at
once.
CLEAR SOUP OR BOUILLON
E. D. P.
Cut up the lean of coarse beef into small pieces.
1 good-sized onion,
Peel and cut up before
1 good-sized carrot,
using.
1 good-sized turnip.
Salt, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper to taste,
4 whole cloves.
Fry with 1 tablespoon of butter in soup-kettle.
When it begins to look whitish, pour over it the
stock from 1 chicken. Boil the chicken in 1 gallon
32
SOUPS
of water in early morning, and make stock in
afternoon. Boil 1 hour, strain and put away till
next day for aspic or bouillon.
For bouillon, beat an egg and let it come to a
boil in the bouillon, and strain before serving.
CORN SOUP (No. 1)
1 can of corn,
1 quart of boiling milk,
Butter, salt, and pepper to taste.
Press the corn through the colander and add to
the quart of boiling milk, and season to taste.
Serve hot with toast in squares.
MRS. DAVENPORT'S CORN
SOUP (No. 2)
12 ears of corn,
11 pints of water,
2 pints new milk,
2 eggs,
2 tablespoons of butter,
1
tablespoon of flour.
Split and cut off the corn, which you must boil
in the water until done and the water is nearly ex-
hausted; then add the milk and let it come to a
33
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
boil, some of which pour in the beaten eggs and
return to the kettle; work flour with the butter,
with pepper and salt to taste; stir into the soup
and then serve.
CREAM OF CELERY SOUP
E. D. P.
1 quart of chicken soup,
1 dessertspoonful of butter,
1 dessertspoonful of cornstarch,
3 heads of celery,
1 quart of milk or cream.
Take the white part of the celery and chop it as
fine as possible. Put it to boil with the milk, and
let it cook until it can be rubbed through a sieve.
If too thick, after it has been rubbed through, add
a little more milk. Return it to the pot, and add
the chicken soup. When it has boiled about 10
minutes, rub the butter and cornstarch together,
and stir in until it thickens; then season to the taste
with salt and white pepper.
G UMBO SOUP
1 chicken,
2 pints okra,
34
SOUPS
1 pint tomatoes,
1 tablespoon butter.
Fry the chicken and pour over 1/2 gallon of boil-
ing water and cook till the meat drops from the
bones. Remove bones. Prepare the vegetables
and add to the soup and boil. Then add thicken-
ing and season to taste, or as for any other soup.
Before pouring off add the butter. Add hot water
as it boils down. Serve hot, with rice boiled dry.
CHICKEN GUMBO
Mrs. Simms
Fry 1 chicken. When done, cover with boiling
water and cook until it is ready to fall apart. Re-
move the chicken, place in a dish to cool, and pour
the liquor into the soup-pot. Add chicken, minced
or shredded very fine.
Fry 1 onion with 1 slice of fat pork. Rinse the
skillet out with a little water and pour all into the
soup. Put 1 can of tomatoes on to boil with 2
quarts of water. Slice 1/2 green pepper and 1
small red pepper very fine and add to tomatoes.
Boil 2 hours. Take 2 cans of okra, carefully re-
moving all the tough pods, 1/2 cup of rice, and 1
tablespoon of minced parsley. Add to the soup
35
SOUPS
MARCELLUS'S POTATO SOUP
(No. 1)
3 large-sized potatoes,
Butter,
1 cup of cream,
Salt and pepper to taste.
Cut the potatoes up in fine pieces and boil 2
hours in 2 quarts of water. Add seasoning and
piece of butter size of an egg and 1 cup of cream.
Serve hot.
POTATO SOUP (No. 2)
1 quart of potatoes,
2 ounces of butter,
2 pints milk,
4 eggs.
Boil the potatoes soft, and smooth with a little
boiling water until a thin batter. Stir the but-
ter, pepper, and salt to taste into the milk. Beat
the eggs and add to potatoes. When milk boils,
pour over the potatoes. and do not return to the
fire.
41
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
PUREE OF CHICKEN
E. D. P.
1 large chicken,
1 small knuckle of veal,
3 quarts of water,
1/ pound of rice,
1 bunch of parsley,
1 blade of mace,
1/2 teaspoonful of celery seed,
1 coffeecupful of boiling cream,
Salt and pepper to the taste.
Put the chicken and veal on with 3 quarts of
water, together with the rice, parsley, mace, and
the celery seed, tied in a muslin bag. Boil gently
until the chicken is thoroughly done, taking care to
skim well all the time it is boiling. Take out the
veal, bone, cut, and pound the chicken in a mor-
tar moisten it with a little of the stock, and pass
it through the colander. Strain the stock, press-
ing the rice through the sieve. Return the chicken
to the stock, season, and just before serving, pour
in the cream. Heat thoroughly, but don't boil.
42
SOUPS
SALSIFY SOUP
1 quart of salsify cooked in water till tender,
1 quart of new milk. Mash the salsify through
sieve.
Add to boiling milk 1 tablespoon flour and 1
large tablespoon butter. Pour all together and
season with pepper and salt.
SIMPLE CHICKEN SOUP
E. D. P.
1 coffeecupful of cream,
1 teacupful of well-boiled rice,
1 blade of mace,
1 saltspoonful of celery seed,
1 dessertspoonful of cornstarch.
When boiling a pair of chickens for dinner, put
in the water a blade of mace and a saltspoonful of
celery seed. After the chickens are done, take out
2 quarts of the water; skim well, and add the
cream or rich milk then the rice and the dessert-
spoonful of cornstarch; season to the taste. It
will require about 3 quarts of water for a pair of
chickens.
43
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SOUP STOCK OF BEEF
E. D. P.
1 large shin-bone,
4 quarts of water,
2 pounds of lean beef,
4 carrots,
3 onions,
4 turnips,
1 bunch of parsley,
1 teaspoonful of celery seed,
Salt to the taste.
Put the bone, which has been previously cracked
in 3 pieces, into the soup-pot, with the water, and
beef cut into pieces the size of an egg, and some
salt. Boil slowly for 1 hour, skimming well until all
of the grease is taken off. Scrape the carrots, peel
the onions and turnips, then quarter, and, with the
celery seed, add to the soup. Let this boil slowly
for 4 hours take off, strain into a stone jar, and
keep in a cool place. Veal stock can be made in
the same way, by getting a large knuckle of veal
and adding 2 pounds of the meat.
44
Entrees
ASPIC JELLY
4 pints of clear soup,
1 box of Cox's gelatine,
1 teacup of wine,
2 tablespoons of vinegar,
Salt and pepper to taste,
Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth.
Stir all well while cooking till it begins to boil.
See that the gelatine is well dissolved, so that it
will not stick to bottom of kettle. Do not stir
after it boils hard. When the eggs break away
and the jelly looks clear, remove from stove and
strain through a clean cloth. Have the cloth soak-
ing in boiling water, and squeeze well out of the
hot water before running the jelly through.
Put chicken in mould, pour sauce over while
warm, and serve with truffles.
63
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
BOUDINS A LA RICHELIEU
E. D. P.
1 pound of raw turkey or chicken breast,
pound of panada,
1/2 pound of butter,
1/4 pound of pickled pork,
3 eggs,
4 truffles,
Salt and pepper to taste.
Grind the turkey or chicken. Cream the butter
with the panada and add the meat, having pork
ground with the meat. Break in the eggs, one at a
time, beating the mixture well. Slice a part of the
truffles in this mixture, reserving the rest for the
sauce. Pour in the liquor from the truffles. Put
this in the Boudin moulld, place in bread-pan
with water around, and boil of of an hour.
Serve with champignon sauce.
CHICKEN ASPIC WITH
WALNUTS
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Make a clear consomme; to 11 cups of con-
somme add box of Cox's gelatine soaked in
64
ENTREES
PRESSED CHICKEN
E. D. P.
1 chicken,
3 sets of sweetbreads,
1 teacup of cream,
1 onion,
A little parsley,
Salt and pepper to taste,
1 tablespoon of butter.
Boil the chicken till tender, also the sweet-
breads. When cold, grind through the meat-
grinder. Boil the onion in the cream and season
with parsley, salt, and pepper. Thicken with a
little flour rubbed in the butter. When it begins
to thicken, strain and mix with chicken and sweet-
breads. Mould with aspic jelly. This makes 2
moulds.
Q UENELLES
E. D. P.
Mix 1 pound of cold turkey or chicken breast with
6 ounces of panada,
1/ pound of pickled pork,
1/4 pound of butter,
1/2 teacup of cream,
71
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Onion, salt, and pepper to taste,
1 lemon.
Shape 3 inches long. Roll in flour and drop in
boiling water.
Serve with champignon sauce.
RISSOLES
1/ pound of ground turkey heart,
3 sets of sweetbreads chopped,
1/4 pound of butter,
1/ pound of flour,
1 pint of strong veal stock,
3 eggs.
Put the butter in a stew-pan; when it bubbles
add the flour; let it cook, but do not let it boil;
add the stock, then the turkey and sweetbreads,
and when it is thick, add the eggs; cook the whole
until it is as stiff as the panada for croquettes.
Set it aside to cool, then add enough cream to make
it soft, but not too wet. Make fine pastry thick
as a biscuit, and cut with a biscuit cutter then roll
it out thin. Put a large spoonful in centre of each,
and turn over like a turn-over pie; dip in eggs,
roll in vermicelli, and fry a light brown.
72
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
liquor, season with salt, pepper, and mace, and
boil. When it boils, stir in the butter and flour till
very smooth. Add 1 large cup of bread-crumbs
and mix thoroughly. Add the minced chicken, and
cook all for a few minutes and set aside to cool.
Mould into croquettes, dip in the beaten egg and
then cracker-dust. Let them stand awhile and fry
in boiling lard, and drain as soon as done.
VERY FINE CROQUETTES
E. D. P.
1 pound of cooked turkey or chicken,
3 teaspoons of chopped parsley,
1 pint of cream,
1 large onion,
1/6 pound of butter,
1/ pound of bread-crumbs,
Salt, pepper, and cayenne pepper to taste.
Sprinkle the parsley over the meat and run
through grinder twice. Boil the onion with the
cream and strain onion out, and when cool pour
cream over bread-crumbs, add the butter, and make
a stiff mixture, then add salt, etc. Beat in the
meat and mix all together.
If too stiff, add a little cream and make as soft
as can be handled. Put on ice to get stiff. Then
80
CROQUETTES
roll and shape. Dip in egg, and roll in bread-
crumbs, and fry in hot lard.
EGG CROQUETTES
Miss Annie White
For 6 croquettes take 6 eggs,
1 pint milk,
1 tablespoon butter,
1 tablespoon flour,
1 tablespoon chopped parsley,
10 drops onion juice,
1 teaspoon salt,
1 teaspoon pepper.
Boil eggs hard and drop in cold water, and,
after removing shells, squeeze through potato-
masher. Boil the milk, and add the flour and but-
ter, which have been well mixed, then add other
ingredients.
Turn in a platter to cool. Let the mixture
stand 3 hours. Shape and drop in egg and bread-
crumbs and fry in boiling fat.
FISH CROQUETTES
Rub together 3 tablespoons of flour, 1 of but-
ter, stir into pint of rich milk; add a teaspoon
81
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
of finely chopped parsley, and a quarter of a tea-
spoon onion juice. Boil until it thickens ; add 2
cups of cold boiled fish, and boil up again ; season
with salt and pepper to taste. When cold, take
out and dip in egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry.
OYSTER CROQUETTES
Drain 1 quart oysters and chop fine. Take 1
pint bread-crumbs and add 1 teaspoon baking-
powder. Mix oysters and crumbs and pour over
1 cup of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and 1
tablespoon butter. Fix well and add 2 well-beaten
eggs. Make into shapes and dip in egg, roll in
cracker-dust, and fry a rich brown.
RICE CROQUETTE S
Mrs. Strauder Goff
11 pints boiled rice,
3 eggs,
Butter size of 11 eggs,
3 tablespoons cream,
teaspoon scraped onion,
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste,
A small pinch of mace.
Reserve 2 whites of the eggs to roll the cro-
82
CROQUETTES
quettes in. Mix the ingredients and cook in a
double boiler till quite thick. Allow to cool. Form
into croquettes and fry in deep fat, after rolling
in the whites of the eggs and bread-crumbs.
The seasoning can be varied by omitting the
mace and adding a half a teacup of grated cheese
or grated ham, or a cup of chopped chicken or
brains. They should always be served with to-
mato sauce.
SALMON CROQUETTES
1 can salmon,
2 eggs,
1/2 cup of butter,
1 cup of fine bread-crumbs,
1 teaspoon baking-powder in bread-crumbs,
cup of cream,
1/4 teaspoon of cayenne pepper,
Salt to taste.
Mix all together and make in pear shape. Roll
in egg and cracker-dust, and fry light brown.
83
Sauces for Entrées, Fish,
Fowl and Meats
AGRA DOLCE
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Mix together
2 heaping tablespoonfuls of brown sugar,
1/4 bar of grated chocolate,
1 tablespoonful each of shredded candied orange
and lemon peel,
10 blanched almonds, cut,
cupful of currants,
1 cupful of vinegar.
Let them soak for 2 hours, then pour over the
cooked meat and simmer for 10 minutes.
Nice for mutton, venison, sweetbreads, calf's
head, etc.
117
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
A GOOD SAUCE FOR COLD
MEATS AND FISH
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Yolks of 4 eggs,
teaspoonful of salt,
Dash of cayenne pepper,
4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil,
1 tablespoonful of hot water,
1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar.
Beat the yolks, add the oil and water. Stand the
bowl in boiling water till it thickens. Remove and
add salt, pepper, and vinegar. It should be creamy
and of the consistency of mayonnaise. A few
chopped capers, olives, and cucumbers make it a
good Tartare sauce, and a little tomato purée will
make it a red sauce for fish.
APPLE SAUCE FOR D UCK
Pare 12 apples and cover with small quantity of
water and cook till tender. Strain through a col-
ander and add cup of sugar.
CAPER SAUCE
The yolks of two eggs,
cup of olive oil,
118
SAUCES
3 tablespoons of vinegar,
1 of mustard,
1 teaspoon of sugar,
1/6 teaspoon of red pepper,
1 teaspoon of salt,
1 teaspoon of onion juice,
1 tablespoon of chopped capers,
1 tablespoon of chopped cucumber pickles.
Make the same as mayonnaise dressing, add the
chopped things last. This sauce can be used with
fish and boiled meats, or meats served in jelly.
CELERY SAUCE
Take cream or rich milk, and boil with pieces
of celery till the flavor is extracted. Remove it
and season sauce with salt and pepper, and add
butter, then a little flour to thicken it.
Serve with vegetables.
CHAMPIGNON SAUCE FOR
BOUDINS
Cut up 1 can of champignons and let them boil
hour. Add half can of truffles, cut up and
boil with champignons, cayenne pepper and salt to
taste. As the champignons are salty, do not put
too much. Add 1 pint of rich cream, and while
119
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
boiling, add 1 tablespoon of butter with a little
flour to thicken the sauce.
Pour over Boudins and serve.
CHAMPIGNON SAUCE FOR
QUENELLES
E. D. P.
2 cans of champignons,
1 quart of clear soup,
1 dessertspoon of flour,
1 large spoon of butter,
2 tablespoons of wine,
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Cut the champignons into small pieces and cook
in their own liquor for 1/2 hour. Let the clear soup
come to a boil and add the champignons with the
salt and pepper. Rub flour and butter together
and stir in the champignons until thick as cream.
Heat the wine and pour in just before serving.
CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR
TURKEY
E. D. P.
1 teacup of mashed sweet potatoes,
1 teacup of mashed and boiled chestnuts,
120
SAUCES
1 dessertspoon of butter,
1 wineglass of cream,
Salt and black pepper to the taste.
Mix potatoes, chestnuts, cream, and season. Put
stuffing in when turkey is half-roasted. Baste
often.
CRANBERRY SAUCE FOR
TURKEY
Wash 1 quart of berries. Cover with water in
a porcelain kettle and cook till the skins burst.
Mash and strain through a colander and return to
fire. Add 1 cup of sugar and cook till thick.
Mould in any shape and serve cold.
CUCUMBER SAUCE
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
1 dozen fresh green cucumbers,
1 dozen white onions,
1 quart of good cider vinegar.
Peel and grate the cucumbers and onions and
place in a sieve to drain. Place the pulp in a bowl
and add black and cayenne pepper and salt to taste
and 1 quart or more of good vinegar.
121
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Put in wide-mouthed bottles or little glass jars
and put 1 tablespoon of olive oil in each before
sealing.
This recipe requires no cooking, and will keep
2 years in a cool place.
DRAWN BUTTER FOR FOWL
Melt 1/4 pound butter and stir in 2 teaspoons
flour. Mix thoroughly and add 6 teaspoons of
cold water, a little at a time. Cook till smooth.
Add salt and pepper to taste. If preferred, add
oysters while mixture is simmering.
FISH SAUCE (No. 1)
V. C. G.
1 pint of boiled milk,
2 tablespoons of butter,
1 tablespoon of flour,
1 tablespoon of wine,
1 tablespoon of capers,
1 egg,
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Put the milk in a saucepan, and when it comes
to a boil stir in a well-beaten egg, salt and pepper.
129
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
BLUE GRASS CORN PUDDING
8 ears of corn,
1 tablespoon of butter,
1 teacup of milk,
1 teaspoon of flour,
Salt and pepper to taste,
3 eggs.
Grate the corn and scrape cob with a knife. Beat
the eggs light and stir in cream, butter, and flour,
and mix with the milk and add the corn. Season
and bake of an hour.
MRS. TALBOT'S C o R N P U D D I N G
1 dozen ears of sweet corn,
1 quart of new milk (or use milk and cream),
2 tablespoons of butter,
1 tablespoon of sugar,
1 teaspoon of salt.
Split the corn and scrape well with a knife.
Stir in the milk. Break butter into pieces and
scatter on top. Add the sugar and stir all well.
Cook 1/2 hour in a hot oven, stirring every 5 min-
utes until nearly done, then let the top brown.
136
VEGETABLES
CORN FRITTERS (No. 1)
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Beat 2 eggs without separating,
1 cup milk,
1 pint canned corn.
Little salt, sugar, and enough flour for thick
batter: add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder to
flour; 1 tablespoon butter; fry in hot lard.
CORN FRITTERS (No. 2)
2 eggs,
1 teacup of new milk,
2 tablespoons butter,
2 tablespoons flour,
1 quart grated corn.
Mix thoroughly and drop with a spoon in hot
butter and lard mixed, and fry a rich brown. Salt
and pepper to taste.
BAKED E G G - P L A N T
Do not peel the plant, but parboil it till tender,
and then throw it into cold water. Then peel and
cut it open and remove the seed and fill with a
dressing made of bread-crumbs, a little chopped
137
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
onion, butter, salt, and pepper. Put in a pan
with a little water and bake a rich brown.
FRIED EGG-PLANT -
After peeling the plant cut in slices and lay in
salt water. Steam till tender. Make a batter of
2 eggs beaten separately,
1 teacup of sour cream,
1 teaspoon salt,
1/ teaspoon soda,
Flour enough to thicken.
Dip the egg plant in the batter and fry a rich
brown. Serve hot.
G PLANT PUDDING
E.D.P.
2 egg-plants,
Yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs,
1/4 pound of butter,
1 teaspoon of chopped onion,
1 teaspoon of sweet marjoram,
3 teaspoons of chopped parsley,
Salt and cayenne pepper to the taste,
1 raw egg.
Split the plants and soak in salt and water 2
138
VEGETABLES
hours. Parboil them, peel and press all the water
out. Chop them fine mash the yolks of eggs and
mix together. Add onion, parsley, and marjoram,
rubbed and sifted. Add the raw egg, after beating
well; then the melted butter, salt, and pepper.
Put in baking-dish with grated cracker on top,
and bake 1/2 hour.
GREEN CORN CUSTARD
WITH BROILED TOMATOES
Mrs. Daniel B. Wentz
1 cupful of corn, freshly cut from the ears of
young corn,
4 eggs, beaten slightly,
1 teaspoon of salt,
A little paprika,
A few drops of onion juice,
11 cups of milk.
Bake in buttered moulds in hot water. When
firm, turn out and place on dish with broiled toma-
toes around. Serve with cream sauce made as fol-
lows:
1 tablespoon of butter,
1 tablespoon of flour,
1 cup of milk.
Cook till thick.
139
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
HOMINY PUFFS
1 quart of cold boiled hominy,
4 heaping tablespoons of flour,
3 teaspoons of baking powder,
1 coffeecup of sweet milk,
1 teaspoon of salt,
4 eggs.
Take thoroughly cooked hominy when cold and
stir in the well-beaten yolks, then flour, milk, and
salt alternately with the baking-powder. Add
last the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth and
stirred in slowly. Have lard boiling and drop the
mixture in with a spoon, and fry rich brown.
MACARONI
1 pound macaroni,
1/4 pound butter,
1/ pound grated cheese.
Boil the macaroni till tender, and then put in
a deep dish and spread over it pieces of butter and
scatter the grated cheese. Put in another layer of
macaroni, and so on. Put bits of butter on top,
with salt and pepper, and bake well.
140
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
CREAM PIE (No. 2)
Miss Mary Bashford
4 eggs-yolks only, leaving whites for a meringue,
1 pint of cream instead of butter,
3 kitchen spoons of flour,
pint of sugar.
Flavor and bake. Meringue on top.
Make lemon pies the same way, using juice of
2 lemons.
IRISH POTATO PIE
1 pint mashed potatoes,
1/2 pint cream,
4 eggs,
pound sugar,
1 orange,
1 cup of butter.
Cook and mash the potatoes. Beat the eggs
together, add sugar and butter and beat well.
Then pour in the cream and add the potatoes and
stir well. Flavor with the juice of 1 orange.
Bake in paste and cover with meringue of well-
beaten whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar.
206
PASTRY
LEMON PIE (No. 1)
Mrs. R. H. Hanson
1 cup of buttermilk,
11 cups sugar,
4 eggs,
1 tablespoon butter,
1 tablespoon cornstarch,
Juice and rind of 2 lemons.
Beat the yolks and reserve the whites for the
meringue.
Add the other ingredients and cook in a porce-
lain pan till thick.
Fill the shells, spread the meringue on top and
brown in the oven.
LEMON PIE (No. 2)
Miss Mary Bashford
6 eggs, using 2 whites,
2 lemons, if juicy-more, if dry,
1 pint of sugar,
pint of butter,
1 spoon of sifted flour.
Add lemon juice last. Cook and add meringue.
207
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
MINCE MEAT FOR PIES (No. 1)
R. v. J.
4 pounds of fresh tongue,
3 pounds of suet,
8 pounds of chopped apples,
3 pounds of currants,
4 pounds of seeded raisins,
6 pounds of white sugar,
2 pounds of citron, cut in small pieces,
4 lemons, grated rind and juice,
1 ounce of cinnamon,
1/4 ounce of cloves,
1- ounce of allspice,
4 nutmegs, grated,
1 quart of Madeira wine,
1 pint of cider,
1 quart of brandy or good whisky.
Boil the tongue in salted water until tender, and
when cold, chop fine. Remove every particle of
membrane from the suet and chop it fine, and mix
with the tongue with enough salt to remove the
fresh taste.
To this, add the apples, sugar, fruit, spices and
other ingredients. Mix all together and cover
close.
208
PASTRY
If too dry when ready for use, moisten with a
little sweet cider.
MINCE MEAT FOR PIES (No. 2)
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
5 pounds of beef tongue, cooked and chopped
fine,
4 pounds of suet (be careful to remove strings),
2 pounds of raisins,
2
pounds of cherry preserves,
1
pound of damson preserves,
1
pound of peach preserves,
1
pound of pear preserves,
11 pounds of ginger preserves,
1 1/2 pounds of dried peaches, stewed,
1
pound of citron,
1
pound of currants,
2 nutmegs,
1
tablespoon of cinnamon,
1
tablespoon of cloves and spices, mixed,
5 pounds of white sugar.
Mix thoroughly with 1 pint of sherry wine and
1 pint of good whisky, and put in glass jars.
209
THE BLUE GRASS cook BOOK
NUTMEG PIE
Mrs. Strauder Goff
3 eggs beaten separately,
1 pint sugar,
1 medium-sized nutmeg,
Piece of butter the size of an egg.
Mix, adding the whites last. This will make 2
pies.
ORANGE PIE
4 oranges,
1 quart milk,
2 tablespoons cornstarch,
3 eggs,
1 cup of sugar.
Peel, seed, and cut into small pieces the four
oranges. Add the sugar and let it stand. Boil
the quart of milk and stir in the cornstarch, which
has been mixed with a little water. Add the yolks
of the three eggs, which have been well beaten.
Cook till a thick custard, and after cooled add the
orange and sugar. Cook in pastry, and then make
a meringue of the three whites and spread on top
and brown slightly.
210
PASTRY
PUMPKIN PIE
Cut the pumpkin in small pieces and stew in a
little water. Strain, and to 1 quart of the pump-
kin add 1/2 pint of sugar, 1 cup of cream, cinnamon,
and allspice to taste, 3 eggs, and 3 tablespoons
butter. Beat it well. Line a pie-plate and pour
the custard over it. Make a top with strips of
pastry and bake till a rich brown.
STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE
E.D.P.
Rub 2 tablespoons of butter in
1 quart of flour, with
1/2 teaspoon of salt, and
2 teaspoons of baking powder,
Sweet milk enough for soft dough.
Mix lightly and put in pan the shape of Sally
Lunn. Bake quickly. When done, split and but-
ter while hot. In splitting any kind of hot bread,
cut around the crust with a sharp knife and open
carefully with a fork. Have fresh strawberries
that have been well sweetened and spread over one-
half; then lay on other half and spread with berries.
Serve with whipped cream.
211
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SWEET POTATO PIE (No. 1)
Mrs. J. W. Fox
For 2 pies take 4 large potatoes. Peel and steam
them till mealy. Mash and beat or run them
through a fruit-masher, and add
2 tablespoons butter,
1/2 cup of rich cream,
cup white sugar,
2 eggs.
Season with cinnamon, spice, and nutmeg. Mix
well and bake in a rich pastry. Cover top with
a meringue of whites of 2 eggs beaten very stiff
and sweetened with 2 tablespoons sugar.
SWEET POTATO PIE (No. 2)
(Famous Virginia Recipe)
Mrs. T. L. Rosser
1 pound boiled sweet potato,
pound sugar,
pound butter,
6 eggs,
1 lemon,
1 glass of brandy.
Rub the potatoes while hot through a colander.
Cream the butter and sugar till very light and add
212
PASTRY
to the potatoes. Beat 6 eggs till foamy and add
to the mixture. Flavor with grated nutmeg, the
juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, and add 1 glass
of brandy.
Line a pie-plate with rich pastry and pour the
ingredients in and bake in a moderate oven. When
done, sprinkle the top with sugar and cover with
fine bits of citron.
TRANSPARENT PIE (No. 1)
Mrs. Joseph Holt
Yolks of 8 eggs,
pound of butter,
1 pound of sugar,
1 wineglass of wine, flavored with lemon.
Mix well and cook in rich pastry.
TRANSPAENT PIE (No. 2)
E.D. P.
4 eggs, beaten separately,
1 cup of butter,
2 cups of sugar,
2 tablespoons of jelly.
Beat sugar and butter, then yolks, and add jelly.
Bake in rich crusts with whites as a meringue.
213
PUDDINGS
BLACK PUDDING
Mrs. James E. Clay
4 yolks of eggs,
1 teacup of sugar,
2 teacups of flour,
1 teacup of butter,
1/2 teacup of sour cream,
1 teacup of blackberry jam,
1/2 teaspoon soda,
Cinnamon, allspice, and cloves to taste.
Bake in pudding-pan or steam. Eat with white
sauce seasoned with whisky.
BLUE GRASS PUDDING
E.D.P.
1 coffeecup of molasses,
1 coffeecup of sour cream,
1 full teaspoon of soda,
1 coffeecup of beef suet,
4 cups of flour,
1 pound of raisins,
1 pound of citron,
1 pound of apples, chopped fine,
217
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1/2 nutmeg,
2 teaspoons of cinnamon, or spices to taste.
Mix molasses, cream, and soda and let it foam.
Add suet, flour, raisins, citron-having dredged
them with flour-apples, and spices.
Grease mould well and let it steam 3 hours.
Leave room for swelling. This quantity makes 2
puddings. Serve with sauce.
CABINET PUDDING
E.D.P.
pound of butter,
pound of sugar,
5 eggs,
1/2 cup of milk,
1/2 pound of sifted flour,
1/2 pound of raisins, seeded and dredged in flour.
Cream the butter and add sugar. Add well-
beaten yolks, then milk, and by degrees the flour,
alternately with the whites. Add the raisins and
pour into well-buttered pudding-mould and boil
21 hours. The mould should have a top. Put
in kettle of boiling water. Keep the water within
1 or 2 inches of the top. The steam helps to cook
the pudding, and the pot should be kept covered.
218
PUDDINGS
CARAMEL PUDDING
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 full pint of rich milk or cream,
Yolks of 2 eggs,
2 tablespoons sugar,
1 tablespoon cornstarch,
Wine, macaroons, or any kind of preserved fruit.
Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the yolks
very light and add the sugar. Stir the cornstarch
with a little cold milk and add to the boiling milk,
and add macaroons or fruit. Cook till thick. Make
a meringue of the 2 whites and 4 tablespoons of
sugar, cover the top and set in oven and brown
slightly.
CHOCOLATE CUSTARD
V.C.G.
1 quart of milk,
4 eggs,
11 bars of chocolate,
Sugar to taste.
Scald the milk and stir the chocolate in after
it is grated. Beat the eggs and sugar together
and stir into the milk, and let it cook till it is thick
219
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
as boiled custard. Flavor with vanilla and pour
into cups.
Serve cold with whipped cream.
CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS
Mrs. Walter E. Addison
Make sponge cake and flavor with lemon,
Make a filling of 1 quart of new milk,
Yolks of 4 eggs.
Boil the milk and add the yolks with 4 table-
spoons sugar. When the milk has boiled, pour it
on the yolks, stirring rapidly all the time. After
well mixed return to the fire. Make a paste of 3
spoons cornstarch and cold milk and stir into the
custard. Cook till well thickened. Flavor with
vanilla.
Put a layer of this custard between the layers
of cake. Cover the top with an icing made of 3
tablespoons chocolate, 6 of sugar, 2 of sweet cream,
and a little butter.
CHOCOLATE PUDDING
E. D. P.
12 tablespoons of grated bread-crumbs,
6 tablespoons of grated vanilla chocolate,
220
PUDDINGS
1 cooking-spoon of butter,
1 quart of sweet milk,
Yolks of 6 eggs.
Boil the milk and sweeten to the taste with gran-
ulated sugar; then add the butter to it while boil-
ing. Cool and add the well-beaten yolks of eggs
and grated chocolate. Bake for 1/2 hour.
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, adding, while
beating, 2 tablespoons of pulverized sugar. Spread
over the pudding and brown nicely. Eat with
cream.
STEAMED
CHOCOLATE PUDDING
Mrs. James E. Clay
Boil 1 quart of morning's milk and pour over 1
pint sifted bread-crumbs,
pound grated chocolate,
1 cup of sugar,
1 cup of flour,
1 cup of butter,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1 cup of raisins cut and seeded,
1 cup of pecans, and
2 tablespoons vanilla.
Steam 2 hours and serve with a rich sauce. Nuts
221
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
can be left out if desired. Pudding can be made
several days before and steamed again when needed.
COCOANUT PUDDING
pound of cocoanut, grated,
1/4 pound of sugar,
31 ounces of butter,
Whites of 6 eggs,
glass of wine and brandy, mixed,
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Stir the
whites gradually. Then sprinkle cocoanut, stir-
ring hard all the time. Serve with sauce.
COTTAGE PUDDING
Mrs. Joseph H. Holt
3 eggs (8 whites, 2 yolks),
1 quart of flour,
1 pint of sugar,
1/2 pint of butter (heaping),
1 cup of new milk,
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar,
1/2 teaspoon of soda.
Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth. Season all
292
PUDDINGS
with fresh lemon or whisky. Bake in buttered gem
moulds and serve with rich sauce for cottage pud-
ding.
DELICIOUS CREAM PUDDING
Mrs. James E. Clay
5 eggs,
1 tablespoon butter,
1 large cup of cream,
1 full pint of sugar,
2 tablespoons flour,
Season lightly with lemon.
Beat the yolks, saving the whites and half the
sugar for the meringue. Add butter and sugar,
then sift in flour, then lemon and cream. Pour in
pudding-pan and bake. Add the meringue and
brown slightly.
DIXIE PUDDING
1 pint bread-crumbs,
1 quart milk,
1 tablespoon sugar,
Yolks of 6 eggs.
Stir the bread-crumbs into the boiling milk, add
the sugar and well-beaten yolks. Flavor with
223
THE BLUE GRAS! S COOK BOOK
vanilla and bake till it begins to thicken. Add 2
cups of sugar to the 6 whites which have been
well beaten. Cover the top of pudding with acid
jelly and spread on the meringue and stick al-
monds here and there on the top. Let it brown
and serve cold with cream or sauce. A little wine
may be used by leaving out the same quantity of
milk.
FIG PUDDING
3 eggs,
1 scant coffeecup of sugar,
1 cup of sweet milk,
1 cup of butter,
2 heaping cups of bread-crumbs,
1 pound of figs, chopped fine,
1 wineglass of sherry,
2 tablespoons of flour, with
2 teaspoons of baking-powder, sifted in the flour.
Steam 3 hours. Serve with sauce.
Put pudding in a cake-mould and set in steamer.
FINE
ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING
V.C.G.
1/2 pound of flour,
pound of bread-crumbs,
224
PUDDINGS
6 ounces of suet, chopped fine,
1 pound of seeded raisins,
pound of currants,
pound of citron, chopped fine,
1/ teaspoon of nutmeg,
teaspoon of cinnamon,
1/2 teaspoon of salt,
1/2 glass of brandy,
1/2 cup of light brown sugar,
3 eggs, well beaten,
1 pint of sweet milk,
Grated rind of 1 orange or lemon.
Steam constantly 4 or 5 hours. Eat with brandy
sauce.
This is a splendid recipe.
F L o A T
V.C.G.
3 eggs,
11 pints of milk,
1 cup of sugar,
Heaping tablespoon of cornstarch.
Flavor with vanilla. Cook till thick. Serve in
glasses.
225
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
INDIAN PUDDING
R. V. J.
Boil 1 cup of meal in 1 pint of milk till it
thickens. Add 1/2 cup of sugar, 1/2 cup of molasses,
1 tablespoon of butter, 1 pint of cold milk, salt to
taste.
Steam and serve with hard sauce.
JEFF DAVIS PUDDING
3 eggs,
21 teacups of esugar,
1
teacup of cream,
1
small cup of butter,
3
tablespoons of flour.
Season with lemon or nutmeg.
KENILWORTH PUDDING
E. D. P.
1 cup of apples, chopped fine,
1 cup of sweet milk,
1 cup of sugar,
1 cup of bread-crumbs,
1 cup of raisins or currants,
226
PUDDINGS
2 eggs, well beaten,
Butter size of an egg,
1 teaspoon of cinnamon.
Bake 1/2 hour. Serve hot with wine sauce.
LADY LEE PUDDING
R.V.J.
1 cup of suet, chopped fine,
1 cup of molasses,
1 cup of milk, with teaspoon of soda,
1 cup of raisins, currants, and citron, mixed,
21 cups of flour.
Boil 3 hours.
NUT PUDDING
6 eggs,
1 1/2 cups of sugar,
3 cups grated almonds or pecans,
Teaspoonful vanilla,
Teaspoonful baking-powder,
1 tablespoon flour.
Beat the yolks and add the sugar. Beat the
whites very stiff and add the nuts. Mix all lightly
and add baking-powder and flour. Bake in layers
227
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
and fill with heavy whipped cream seasoned with
whisky or brandy and pile around the cake.
Sweeten the cream.
ORANGE PUDDING
R. V. J.
4 sweet oranges, sliced,
1 quart of milk,
1 cup of sugar,
2 tablespoons of cornstarch,
Yolks of 3 eggs.
Heat the milk; when nearly boiling add corn-
starch (wet with a little cold water), the sugar,
and eggs well beaten. Boil till thick as custard,
and when cold pour over sliced oranges.
Make a meringue of the whites of 3 eggs and
small teacup of sugar. Spread on pudding and
decorate with sections of orange.
PLUM PUDDING
Mrs. Strauder Goff
1 pound raisins,
1 pound sugar,
228
PUDDINGS
1 pound suet,
1 pound currants,
1/2 pound citron,
1/2 pound bread-crumbs or flour,
6 eggs,
11- nutmeg,
2 teaspoons mixed spices,
1 tumbler of wine and whisky, mixed.
Steam 4 hours and serve with hard sauce.
2
teaspoons of baking-powder is an addition if the
pudding is to be used soon after making. These
puddings may be made in moulds or bags of the
required size and kept in a cool place. Heat
thoroughly when used.
PRUNE PUDDING (No. 1)
Mrs. James E. Clay
Whites of 5 eggs, beaten very stiff.
Add 1/2 pint granulated sugar and beat well.
Stir in 1/2 teaspoon vanilla: lastly, add 1 dozen
prunes, after being cooked and strained. Put in
a baking-dish and set in a pan of warm water and
cook 20 or 30 minutes.
229
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
PRUNE PUDDING (No. 2)
Miss Virginia Croxton
1 pound prunes,
pound sugar,
6 eggs.
Stew, seed, and chop the prunes very fine. Beat
the whites of the eggs; add the sugar, and stir in
the prunes, and bake in a buttered dish for 20
minutes. Make a custard of the yolks of the eggs
and 1 quart of milk. Sweeten and flavor to suit
the taste. Serve the pudding in the baking-dish,
and after serving in small plates, use the custard
as a sauce.
RICE PUDDING (No. 1)
R. V. J.
cup of rice,
1/2 cup of sugar,
Small piece of butter,
1 quart of sweet milk.
Bake slowly 4 hours, and serve with cream.
230
PUDDINGS
RICE PUDDING (No. 2)
Mrs. A. Moore, Jr.
2 tablespoons of rice (raw),
2 quarts of milk,
Sweetened to taste,
1 handful of seedless raisins.
Mix and pour into buttered baking-dish. Grate
nutmeg on top and bake slowly until well done.
When cold the pudding should be of consistency
of baked custard.
Serve with cream.
SCOTCH PUDDING
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
12 small sponge cakes, grated,
5 eggs,
1 teacup of currants,
1 teacup of raisins, cut fine,
1 teacup of sugar,
1 tablespoon of butter,
3 tablespoons of marmalade,
1 teacup of cream.
Cook 15 or 20 minutes. When pudding is nearly
231
Cakes
ALMOND WAFERS
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar,
1/2 saltspoonful of salt.
Stir well together. Beat white of 1 egg just
enough to break it ; add enough flour to sugar to
make it creamy. Flavor with a few drops of bitter
almond essence. Grease the pan lightly and flour.
Drop 1/2 teaspoonful of the paste on the pan, and
with a wet finger spread into a thin round wafer.
Bake in a moderate oven till the edges are lightly
browned; then before removing from the oven door,
lift each wafer and turn round a stick.
ANGEL'S FOOD CAKE
Miss Annie White
Whites of 12 eggs,
10 ounces icing sugar,
243
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
31 ounces flour,
1
teaspoon vanilla,
1
teaspoon cream of tartar.
Sift flour 5 times add cream of tartar and sift
again. Sift sugar 3 times. Beat eggs very light;
add sugar, vanilla, and flour last, stirred in very
lightly. Bake 50 or 60 minutes. When done, do
not take out of mould till cold. The mould should
be greased only on the bottom. When taken out
of the oven it must be turned upside down on some-
thing to let the air to it.
BLACK CAKE (No. 1)
Mrs. John W. Fox
1 pound flour,
1 pound sugar, sifted,
1 pound butter,
12 eggs, beaten separately,
2 nutmegs,
1 small teacup of blackberry jam,
1 cup of dark molasses,
2 cups of brandy or whisky,
2 pounds raisins,
2 pounds currants,
1/2 pound citron,
244
CAKES
1 tablespoon cloves,
2 tablespoons cinnamon,
1 tablespoon mace,
1 tablespoon allspice,
1/4 pound figs, chopped fine,
1/2 cup of nuts,
1 small cup vinegar,
1 teaspoon soda,
pound candied orange.
Put the flour in a bread-pan and brown to a dark
color. Do not burn it. Beat the eggs separately,
then together. Cut the citron in very thin slices
and dredge with flour. Dredge the fruits with
flour and chop the figs and crush the nuts. Beat
the butter and sugar to a cream, and add eggs
alternately with the flour. Add molasses, jam,
brandy, and spices, and then the nuts. Stir the
fruits in lightly, and just before putting in the
pan, add the vinegar, in which the teaspoon soda
is stirred, and pour foaming into the mixture.
Put in a layer of the mixture, then sprinkle the
citron over it, then another layer, and so on, but
do not put any on top. Bake slowly for 4 hours
or longer. When cold, cover with icing flavored
with a little citric acid.
245
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
BLACK CAKE (No. 2)
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 pound of browned flour,
1 pound of sugar,
11 pounds of butter,
13 eggs,
4 pounds of raisins,
2 pounds of currants,
1 pound of citron,
1/2 pint of whisky,
1 nutmeg,
1
teaspoon of cinnamon,
teaspoon of mace,
teaspoon of cloves,
1
pint of acid cherry preserves.
Just before putting in the oven, stir in a small
teacup of vinegar with 1 teaspoon of soda.
Bake 4 or 5 hours in a moderate oven.
BLACKBERRY CAKE
Mrs. Mary E. Goddard
3 eggs,
1
cup of sugar,
cup of butter,
246
CAKES
11 cups of flour,
1 cup of blackberry jam or preserves,
3 tablespoons of sour cream,
1 teaspoon of cinnamon,
1 teaspoon of allspice,
1
teaspoon of soda,
1 nutmeg.
Mix well and bake in layers, and spread white
icing betweeen.
BLUE GRASS PLUM CAKE
R.V.J.
1 pound of butter,
1 pound of granulated sugar,
1
pound of flour,
1
dozen eggs (white and yellows well beaten
separately),
3 pounds of raisins (after seeding),
11 pounds of currants (after cleaning),
11 pounds of citron (cut very thin),
1 nutmeg (grated),
2 tablespoons of powdered cinnamon,
11 pounds of blanched almonds (sliced),
247
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
11 pounds of candied fruit (cut in small pieces),
cherries, peaches, or apricots (do not cut
cherries),
2 lemons (juice),
1 cup of golden syrup,
1 tumbler of mixed brandy, whisky, or rum.
Flour all the fruit with part of 1 pound called
for, and do not add extra flour.
Bake slowly in moderate oven for 5 or 6 hours.
BLUE GRASS WHITE CAKE
Mrs. John C. Berryman
Whites of 12 eggs,
1 tumbler of butter,
21 tumblers of sugar,
31 tumblers of flour, after sifting,
1/6 teaspoon of soda, sifted with flour,
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar.
Bake in mould or bread-pan for 1 hour.
CARAMEL LAYER CAKE
Whites of 4 eggs,
1 cup of butter,
1 cup of sugar,
248
CAKES
1/2 cup of milk,
pound of flour,
1 teaspoon of baking-powder sifted with the flour.
Mix sugar and butter to a cream ; then add milk,
eggs, and flour. Flavor with vanilla, and bake in
layers.
Filling:
2 cups good brown sugar,
1 cup of cream,
1 tablespoon butter.
Put in granite kettle, and when it begins to boil
add 1 tablespoonful of caramel (burnt brown
sugar). Boil till thick. Take from stove and
beat till it thickens. Flavor with vanilla ; then
spread between layers and on top. Cover the top
with English walnuts.
CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE
Whites of 3 eggs,
1 cup of cream or rich milk,
3 cups flour, sifted with 2 teaspoons baking-
powder,
2 large tablespoons butter.
Cream the butter and sugar; then add flour and
cream. Add the eggs last, and flavor with a little
249
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
vanilla. Bake in jelly-pans, and when nearly cool
put a filling between them and on top.
Filling:
2 cups brown sugar,
cake Baker's chocolate.
Cover with milk and add a tablespoon of butter.
Cook till thick. Flavor with vanilla, and spread
on cakes while warm.
CRULLERS
E. D.P.
1 cup of sugar,
1/2 cup of butter,
1 cup of sweet milk,
2 teaspoons of baking-powder,
Nutmeg, cinnamon, or rose water to taste,
3 eggs,
Flour enough to make a stiff dough.
Beat the yolks very light: add sugar, butter;
then milk, with flour for stiff dough. Add season-
ing and the whites well beaten. At the last, add
baking-powder. Roll, cut in shapes, and fry rich
brown in hot lard.
250
CAKES
DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
Miss Bashford
4 ounces of chocolate,
1/2 pint of milk,
1/2 cup of butter,
11 cups of sugar,
4 eggs,
3 cups of flour,
2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder.
Put chocolate in milk and cook in double-boiler
till smooth and thick (about 5 minutes), and stand
aside to cool. Beat the butter to a cream, and add
gradually the sugar and yolks of eggs; then the
cold chocolate mixture, and add the flour, which
has been sifted with the baking-powder. Add the
well-beaten whites of eggs and flavor with vanilla.
Bake in layers and put together with soft icing,
to which add chopped figs or nuts.
DOUGHNUTS
Mrs. H. C. McDowell
1 egg,
1 cup of rich milk,
251
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1 cup of sugar,
3 pints of flour,
3 teaspoons baking-powder,
1 teaspoon melted butter.
Beat the egg well and then add the milk and
sugar, stirring constantly; then the butter and
flour last, with the baking-powder. Roll out on
bread-boards as quickly and as lightly as possible.
Fry in hot lard and sprinkle with sugar.
EXCELLENT DOUGHNUTS
Mrs. W. W. Massie
2 eggs, beaten together,
2 tablespoons of fine lard (not melted),
1 coffeecup of granulated sugar,
pint of milk (skimmed),
Enough flour to make a soft dough,
1 heaping teaspoon of Royal baking-powder,
sifted in flour.
Roll out, cut in shape, and fry in boiling lard.
When cold, dust them in pulverized sugar, to which
a small quantity of pulverized cinnamon is added.
252
CAKES
RAISED DOUGHNUTS
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
1 pint sweet milk,
12- pint lard,
1 pint sugar,
3 eggs.
Mix soft at night, using the milk, one-half the
sugar and lard, pint yeast. In the morning, add
the rest with the eggs, 1 nutmeg, 2 tablespoons
whisky, and a little soda. Knead well and set to
rise. When light roll out thin, and after cutting
let rise again before frying.
EXCELLENT MARBLE CAKE
White part:
Whites of 7 eggs,
3 teacups sugar,
1 teacup of butter,
4 teacups flour,
1 teacup sour cream,
1/2 teaspoon soda in cream,
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar in flour.
Cream sugar and butter. Add cream then flour
and eggs alternately. Flavor to taste and bake in
layers.
253
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Dark part:
Yolks of 7 eggs,
2 teacups of brown sugar,
1 teacup of molasses,
1 teacup butter,
5 teacups flour,
1 teacup of sour cream,
1 teaspoon soda in cream,
Spices to taste.
Bake in layers, and stack alternate layers of
dark and white together with white icing, flavored
with lemon.
FRUIT CAKE
R. v. J.
1 pound of butter,
1
pound of sugar,
12 eggs,
1
pound of flour,
1/2 gill of brandy,
1 nutmeg,
1/2 teaspoon of cloves,
2
teaspoons of cinnamon,
11 pounds of raisins,
11 pounds of currants,
1 pound of citron.
254
CAKES
Seed the raisins; slice the citron in thin slices.
Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the eggs
together till thick, then add them by degrees; also
flour, brandy, spices, and the fruits last, and 1/2
teacup of golden syrup. Line the pan, rub with
butter, and bake in a moderate oven about 4 hours.
WHITE FRUIT CAKE
Miss Elise White
1 pound sugar,
1 pound flour,
pound butter,
Whites of 12 eggs,
2 pounds citron,
2 pounds almonds,
1 large cocoanut, grated.
Add 1 tablespoon of soda and 2 of cream of
tartar to flour and sift. Cream butter and sugar,
and then add eggs, which have been beaten sepa-
rately, and add flour alternately with whites. Beat
well; then add lightly one-half of fruit, and put
remainder in layers with the mixture in cake-mould.
Bake slowly and carefully. Have almonds blanched
and cut, and citron mixed with flour, cut in thin
strips: cocoanut grated.
255
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
FRUIT COOKIES
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Beat well together
3 cups of brown sugar,
1 cup of butter,
1 cup of sour milk,
1 teaspoon of soda,
4 eggs, well beaten,
1 teaspoon of cloves,
2 teaspoons of cinnamon,
1 teaspoon of nutmeg,
2 cups of seeded and chopped raisins.
Flour enough to make a stiff batter that will
drop off a spoon. Bake in a quick oven.
1 teacup of nuts would be an improvement.
FRUIT AND DELICATE
CAKE
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
21 cups of sugar,
41 cups of flour, sifted,
1 cup of butter,
1
cup of sour milk,
1 teaspoon of soda, not heaped,
4 eggs.
256
CAKES
Flavor with lemon; fill 3 jelly tins. Then add
to the remainder
1 cup of chopped raisins,
1 cup of currants,
1/2 citron,
2 tablespoons of molasses,
1 tablespoon of brandy,
1 tablespoon of cinnamon,
1/2 tablespoon of mace or allspice.
After it is baked, put alternate layers of light
and dark with thick icing.
SOFT GINGER BREAD (No. 1)
V. C. G.
1 large coffeecup of sugar,
1 large coffeecup of molasses,
1 large coffeecup of butter,
4 large coffeecups of flour,
1 large coffeecup of sour milk,
4 eggs,
1/2 teacup of ginger,
1/2
teaspoon of ground cloves,
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon,
1 tablespoon of saleratus beaten into the sour milk,
and poured in last.
257
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SOFT GINGER BREAD (No. 2)
11 cups of brown sugar,
1
cup of butter,
2 eggs,
1
teaspoon of soda, dissolved in a cup of butter-
milk,
2
cups of sifted flour,
1
cup of dark molasses,
2 more cups of flour,
4
tablespoons of ginger.
Mix in the order written.
JUMBLES
Miss Elise White
6 eggs,
1 pound sugar,
pound butter.
Cream butter and sugar, beat the eggs into it
with just enough flour to roll out. Take small
quantity of dough and lay on board, and with a
knife roll in sugar and flour.
258
CAKES
DROP JUMBLES
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 pound of sugar,
1 pound of butter,
11 pounds of flour,
Juice of fresh lemon to taste,
8 eggs, beaten separately.
Use 2 heaping teaspoons of baking-powder in
the flour, and sift several times. Have your pans
well greased, and dip a teaspoon of batter at a
time a little distance apart.
KENTUCKY CAKE
Mrs. Joseph H. Holt
12 eggs (whites)
1 pound of flour,
1
pound of sugar,
3
4
pound of butter,
1
pound of raisins,
1
heaping teaspoon of baking-powder,
1 wineglass of whisky with a little nutmeg grated
into it.
Wash butter and then cream it very light with
sugar. Beat whites to stiff froth. Add alter-
259
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
nately with the flour, reserving 1 small cup of flour
to mix with baking-powder. Next, put in whisky
and raisins, and lastly, sift in the cup of flour and
baking-powder.
Bake 2 hours in slow oven.
MOUNTAIN CAKE
V. C. G.
teacup of butter,
1/2
teacup of cornstarch,
1/2
teacup of sweet milk,
11 teacups of sugar,
11 teacups of flour,
1
teaspoon of cream of tartar,
1/2
teaspoon of soda,
1
teaspoon of vanilla,
Whites of 5 eggs.
Bake in jelly pans and make 5 layers.
FROSTING F o R SAME
15 tablespoons of pulverized sugar,
1 grated cocoanut,
Whites of 5 leggs.
Beat the whites of eggs nearly stiff before add-
ing the sugar. Spread on each layer, and sprinkle
cocoanut over and on top and sides.
260
CAKES
MRS. HENRY CLAY'S DROP
CAKES
4 eggs,
6 ounces of butter,
8 ounces of sugar,
8 ounces of flour.
OLD VIRGINIA CHRISTMAS
CAKE
12 eggs,
1 pound flour,
1
pound sugar,
1 pound butter,
1 nutmeg,
1
teaspoon each of mace and cinnamon,
3
pounds of raisins,
3
pounds currants,
1/3
2
pound citron,
1
pound each of cream nuts and almonds,
1/2
pint of brandy,
1/2
teaspoon soda in small cup of vinegar. Put in
last.
Bake 3 or 4 hours. Cover with icing made of
eggs and sugar. Flavor with acid.
261
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
PECAN CAKE (No. 1)
E. D. P.
11 pounds of brown sugar,
1
teacup of molasses,
1
pound of flour,
1/3
pound of butter,
6 eggs (beaten separately),
1 pound of pecans after they are shelled,
11 pounds of raisins,
1/2
nutmeg, grated,
1
wineglass of whisky.
Bake about 3 hours.
PECAN CAKE (No. 2)
E. D. P.
1
pound of sugar,
1
pound of flour,
1/6
pound of butter,
2
pounds of pecans, before picking,
11 pounds of raisins,
2 1/6 nutmeg,
1
tumbler of whisky or brandy,
6
eggs, beaten separately,
1
teaspoon of baking-powder.
262
CAKES
POMMES DE TERRE
Mrs. R. H. Hanson
1 pound blanched almonds,
1 pound powdered sugar,
Pound the almonds to a paste.
Beat the whites of 2 eggs very light and mix
in the almonds and sugar till smooth and flavor
with rose and vanilla. Cut the cake in small
pieces, shape like an Irish potato, and roll the
paste around the cake, then roll in powdered sugar
or powdered cinnamon.
POUND CAKE (No. 1)
E. D. P.
1. pound of flour,
1 pound of butter,
1 pound of sugar,
10 eggs.
Cream butter well, then sugar till very light.
Beat eggs till light, velvety, and thick. Add 2
wineglasses of liquor-any kind preferred, then
flour and eggs alternately.
263
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
POUND CAKE (No. 2)
An Old-Time Recipe
12 eggs,
1 pound butter,
1 pound sugar,
1 pound flour.
Cream the butter and add the flour. Beat the
yolks, and add to them the sugar, then add to the
butter and last the frothed whites. Beat well and
flavor with brandy or whisky. Bake in a papered
mould in a moderate oven. The old-fashioned way
was to bake this recipe in teacups and ice them
with white icing, and they were called "Snow-
balls."
ROBERT LEE JELLY CAKE
Use any recipe for sponge layer cake and fill
with the following:
Yolks of 3 eggs,
Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon,
1/4 pound of butter,
1/2 pound of sugar.
Put in a skillet on the stove and stir till cooked
;
then put in the well-beaten 3 whites. As soon as it
264
CAKES
comes to a boil, take off and stir till cold. Put
between layers of cake.
SIMPLE WHITE CUP CAKE
Miss Annie Lyle
5 eggs,
1 cup of butter,
1 cup of milk,
3 cups of flour after sifting,
2 cups of sugar,
2 teaspoons baking-powder.
SPICE CAKE
Miss Annie White
4 teacups flour,
1 good teacup of butter,
3 teacups sugar,
4 eggs,
1 teaspoon soda in 1 cup of sour milk or cream,
1/2 tablespoon each of nutmeg, allspice, mace, cin-
namon, and cloves.
Cream butter and sugar. Break the 4 eggs over
it and beat. Add milk and soda, and put in grad-
ually flour and the spices. Drop with spoon in
pans and ice with white icing and flavor with lemon.
265
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
ALLEGHANY TEA CAKES
1 pound butter,
1
pound sugar,
8 eggs,
11 pounds flour.
Rub butter and sugar together, and add by de-
grees the well-beaten eggs and the flour. Flavor
to taste. Drop with spoon on well-greased tin
pans.
GERMAN TEA CAKES
Mrs. W. W. Massie
Hard-boiled yolks of 10 eggs, rubbed finely
through a sieve,
2 raw eggs, beaten,
1 pound of butter,
1 pound of sugar,
1 tablespoon of whisky,
Flour enough to make a very soft dough.
Sprinkle sugar over each rolling of dough. Cut
in fancy shapes.
266
CAKES
TEA CAKES (No. 1)
Mrs. H. C. McDowell
4 eggs beaten separately,
1 teacup of lard,
2 heaping teacups of brown sugar,
1 scant half cup of sour milk in which dissolve 2
level teaspoons of soda,
1 grated nutmeg,
1 teaspoon lemon extract,
Flour enough to roll out.
Bake in rather hot oven.
TEA CAKES (No. 2)
Miss Virginia Croxton
1 quart flour,
6 ounces butter,
pound sugar,
3 eggs,
2 heaping teaspoons baking-powder.
Flavor with vanilla or cinnamon. Roll out ahout
1/4 inch thick, cut in shapes, and bake in a quick
oven.
267
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
TIP - TOP CAKE
2 eggs,
11 cups sugar,
1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 1 cup of sweet
milk,
21 cups flour,
2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar,
2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Flavor to
taste.
Cream sugar and butter, and then add beaten
eggs, flour, etc., and bake in layers.
VELVET SPONGE CAKE
6 eggs,
2 cups sugar,
1 cup of boiling water,
3 cups flour,
1 tablespoon baking-powder.
Separate the eggs and beat the yolks and add
to them the sugar and beat till very light. Add
the whites, then the hot water, and last, beat the
flour in very lightly. Put together with icing and
flavor with lemon. This recipe makes a nice cake
baked in a big mould or in layers or in muffin
rings. Bake in a moderate oven.
268
CAKES
VENETIAN CAKE
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1/2
cupful of butter,
1/2
cupful of powdered sugar,
11 cupfuls of flour,
1
teaspoonful of vanilla,
cupful of almonds,
Yolks of 3 eggs.
Cream butter and sugar very light: add yolks
well-beaten, the almonds cut mix and add vanilla
and stir in lightly the flour. The dough should be
rather soft. Take a small piece at a time, drop
into powdered sugar, roll in the hands in a ball an
inch in diameter. Put a piece of pistachio nut on
the top. Place the balls a little distance apart on
a floured pan, and bake in a moderate oven 10 or
15 minutes. They will look like macaroons.
WASHINGTON CAKE
V.C.G.
1 pound of flour,
1 pound of brown sugar,
1/2 pound of butter,
1 cup of sweet milk,
269
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1 teaspoon of soda, sifted with flour,
1 pound of raisins, stoned,
1/2 pound of currants,
1/2 pound of citron,
1 cup of English walnuts, chopped fine,
4 eggs, beaten together,
1 teaspoon of cinnamon,
1 teaspoon of cloves,
glass of whisky.
Bake in a 4-quart can, and in a slow oven.
WHITE C A K E
Mrs. Simms
1 large teacup of butter,
2 large teacups of sugar,
3 large teacups of flour,
Whites of 12 eggs,
2 heaping teaspoons of baking-powder,
1 cup of sweet milk.
If large mould is used, put in 2 cups of seeded
raisins. Mix sugar and butter night before. Add
flour and whites alternately-milk last, then 1/2 cup
of flour with the baking-powder in it.
270
CAKES
WHITE SPONGE CAKE (No. 1)
Mrs. J. C. Berryman
Whites of 12 eggs beaten very light. Beat in
pound of sugar, then stir, and put in slowly
pound of flour, a little at a time.
Bake in pan 1/2 hour.
WHITE SPONGE CAKE (No. 2)
R. V.G.
13 eggs, whites only,
4 yolks,
1
pound of sugar,
1/2 pound of flour,
1 lemon.
Beat the yolks and sugar together till very light.
Then add the whites, which have been well beaten,
and beat all together well. Cut in the flour with a
knife, and add juice of lemon.
Bake very slowly an hour and a half in a large-
sized mould.
271
Confections
B ROWN TAFFY
3 pounds sugar,
1/2 pound butter,
1 teaspoon cream of tartar.
Put in pan and dissolve with water. Boil till
it cracks. Flavor with vanilla. Pour on marble
slab and when cool enough to pull, pull till light,
and arrange in long strips and cut any length
desired.
CARAMEL CANDY
1 pound chocolate,
1 pound brown sugar,
1 cup of sweet cream,
1 tablespoon of butter.
Boil till thick and flavor with vanilla. Beat till
creamy. Pour on slab and cut in squares.
339
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
CHOCOLATE CANDY
3 cups white sugar,
2 tablespoons butter,
1 tablespoon vinegar and 1/4 teaspoon soda,
1- cake of chocolate,
1 cup of boiling water.
Put all in a pan and stir till dissolved, boil
till it cracks, flavor with vanilla, and beat till
creamy. Pour on slab and cut in squares.
CHOCOLATE CARAMELS
To 1 pint of rich milk, add
3 pounds of light-brown sugar,
1/2 pound of butter.
Let the mixture come to a boil, when add 1/2
pound of scraped chocolate. Let it boil till it be-
comes quite thick, stirring it all the time. It is
best to mix the chocolate with a cup of the boiling
milk before adding it to the whole.
When done, flavor with vanilla: pour into but-
tered pans, and cut in squares before it becomes
quite cold.
340
CONFECTIONS
CHOCOLATE DROPS
Miss Kate Alexander
2 pounds of powdered sugar,
Whites of 2 eggs,
1/6
cup of sugar,
1 tablespoonful of vanilla,
1 1/2 pounds of grated pecans.
Beat the whites of 2 eggs. Sift the sugar; then
pour gradually into the eggs, stirring rapidly.
Put in the vanilla; then the grated nuts; then
pour in the cream. Add the rest of the sugar until
it can be worked as dough; then roll out in any
shape, and put on a dish to cool.
Take cake of chocolate (melted) ; then drop
them in, taking out with a toothpick on either side.
Place them on buttered paper; then put a pecan on
top. Set out to cool; then put them on a dish.
COCOANUT CANDY
1 cocoanut, grated,
3 cups brown sugar.
Cover the sugar with water and cook till brittle.
Then pour over the cocoanut, which has been
sprinkled on either slab or dish.
When cold, break in small pieces.
341
CAKES
Apricot Cake
1 cup flour
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking pow-
3/4 cup of milk
der
Pour into small buttered pan about size of bread tin,
lay cooked apricots on top (as many as you wish).
Sprinkle with sugar, little cinnamon and chunks of butter.
Bake in moderate oven, and serve with whipped cream.
Banana Cake
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking pow-
2/3 cup of butter
der
2 egg yolks (beat whites
1 scant teaspoon salt
separately)
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 tablespoons sour milk
1 cup mashed bananas
1 teaspoon soda
1 1/2 cups of flour
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks. Then add
baking soda to sour milk and add to sugar mixture. Then
add salt, vanilla, mashed bananas and flour, and fold in
beaten whites, Follow the order of mixing exactly.
Mrs. E. O. Weidenmiller.
Brown Nut Cake
2 cups sugar
1 cup grated S weet
3/4 cup butter
chocolate
4 eggs
1 cup milk
1 cup unblanched al-
2 cups flour
monds, chopped
2 teaspoons baking
powder
Mrs. E. W. Hart.
8
Cakes
Blintz Torte
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup of flour
4 egg yolks
1 teaspoon baking pow-
5 tablespoons milk
der
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg yolks, milk,
flour, and flavoring. Put this dough on buttered cake
tins, then beat four egg whites till stiff and dry and beat
in one cup powdered sugar till stiff. Put this mixture
over the cake dough, cut almonds over the meringue
and bake in moderate oven twenty or twenty-five min-
utes. Between the layers put a custard made of one egg,
1 cup of milk, two teaspoons sugar and one teaspoon
vanilla, cooked in double boiler until stiff.
Mrs. Ferrone.
Chocolate Cake
Part I.
1/2 cup strong coffee
3/4 cup grated chocolate 1/2 cup brown sugar
Put in sauce pan and cook until thick. Set aside
to cool.
Part II.
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1/2 cup butter
der
1/2 cup strong coffee
1 3/4 cups flour
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter and sugar, add coffee, eggs, and Part
I. Add flour, sifted with soda and baking powder. Bake
in layers, and use Mocha frosting.
Mrs. O. R. Marxsen, Jr.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
9
Chocolate Loaf Cake
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Yolks of four eggs
2 squares of chocolate
1/2 cup milk
melted in five table-
1 3/4 cups flour
spoons of hot water
2 teaspoons b aking
powder
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and beat well.
Add chocolate, then vanilla, flour and baking powder.
Lastly fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and
bake in a loaf pan for one hour.
Mrs. E. O. Weidenmiller.
Chocolate Surprise Cakes
1 1/2 cups flour, sifted
1 1/2 squares chocolate
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon melted
1 teaspoon soda
shortening
1 cup thick cream or
milk
Beat until smooth. Bake for twenty minutes in
muffin tins. Cut out center of each, fill with whipped
cream, replace crust and cover with chocolate icing.
Ruth Salter.
Devil's Food Cake
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup sour milk
2/3 cup butter
2 1/2 cups flour
3 eggs
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup coffee
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup cocoa (dry)
10
Cakes
Christmas Pecan Cake
1 pound sugar
2 teaspoons grated nut-
1/2 pound butter
meb, dissolved in wine
6 eggs
glass of brandy or
1 pound white raisins
cider
1 pound flour
1/2 pound candied cher-
1 teaspoon baking pow-
ries and pineapple
der
may be added to half
1 pound pecan meats
the amount of raisins
Bake slowly for three hours in a tube pan lined with
seven of heavy brown paper. Slice thin.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
Dark Fruit Cake
1 pound granulated
1 tablespoon molasses
sugar
1 cup sour milk
1 pound butter or sub-
1 cup grape juice
stitute
1 teaspoon soda
8 eggs
2 teaspoons each cinna-
2 pounds raisins
mon, cloves and nut-
1/2 pound currants
meg
1/2 pound citron
1 1/4 pounds Swan's
1/2 pound figs
Down cake flour
1 pound shelled nuts
2 teaspoons baking
4 apples
powder
Bake slowly.
Mrs. Lindemann.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
11
Dutch Apple Cake
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon baking pow-
2 1/2 tablespoons sugar
der
1/4 teaspoon salt
Water to make soft
dough
Sift dry ingredients. Work butter in with knife.
Add beaten egg and water. Handle very lightly. Put
in square shallow pan and fill with sliced apples. On
top put the following mixture:
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
2 tablespoons flour
Bake until apples are soft.
Mrs. J. A. Lytle.
French Pastry Cake
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup cocoa, dissolved
1/2 cup butter
in 3/4 cup boiling
3 egg yolks
coffee
1/2 teaspoon baking soda,
dissolved in 1/2 cup
milk or cream
Let cool, add 3 cups flour and 3 beaten egg whites,
flavor if desired.
Filling
3 cups powdered sugar
6 tablespoons butter
6 tablespoons cocoa
6 tablespoons hot coffee
Mrs. O. G. Balfour.
12
Cakes
Graham Cracker Torte
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
24 g r a h a m crackers,
4 eggs, separated
ground fine
1/2 cup shredded cocoa-
2 teaspoons baking
nut or chopped nuts
powder
2 teaspoons vanilla
Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs well
beaten, and milk alternately with cocoanut, baking pow-
der and crackers. Fold in stiffly beaten whites, bake
in two layers and frost with butter cream flavored with
almond.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet
Meringue Cake
1/2 cup butter and 1/2
1 cup flour
cup sugar creamed
1/4 teaspoon salt
together
1 teaspoon baking pow-
3 egg yolks
der
5 tablespoons milk
Meringue
3 egg whites beaten stiff 1/2 cup blanched al-
with pinch of salt
monds or walnuts
1 cup sugar added slow-
ly
Spread batter in layer pan, spread meringue over
batter and bake slowly one half hour.
Custard
1 beaten egg
1 cup sugar mixed with
1 teaspoon vanilla
two scant tablespoons
1 cup milk
corn starch
Cook in double boiler until thick.
When cake is cold cut in half, spread custard be-
tween halves to make layer cake. Serve as dessert with
whipped cream.
Mrs. William G. Clark.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
13
Never Fail Devil's Food Cake
2 tablespoons butter
2 eggs, separated
1 1/2 cups Swansdown
1/4 teaspoon salt
flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup sour milk or
2 squares chocolate
cream
1 teaspoon baking soda
Cream butter and sugar, add yolks then flour and
milk alternately. The soda should be beaten into the
milk before using. Then add chocolate, vanilla, and fold
in whites.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet.
Nun's Cake
1 cup butter
2 1/2 teaspoons b a k i n g
1 1/2 cups pow dered
8
powder
sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Yolks of 5 eggs
3 teaspoons c a r a W a y
.
Whites of 2 eggs
seed
3/4 cup milk
2 teaspoons rose water
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
3 cups flour
extract
Beat butter until creamy, add sugar and egg yolks,
stir in unbeaten egg whites and beat for one minute. Add
flour, milk and flavorings. Bake in a moderate oven.
Pineapple Filling for Sponge or Ice Box Cake
1 can (small) grated
2 teaspoons water
pineapple
2/3 cup corn starch
1 small cup sugar
Cook until thick and cool. Add half pint whipped
cream.
Nell Graham.
14
Cakes
Pound Cake
Cream 1 cup butter; add gradually 1 1/2 cups sugar.
Cream well. Break into this 5 eggs, one at a time, beat-
ing well after each egg. Then add 2 cups well sifted
flour. Flavoring. May add citron. For flavoring, a
combination of almond, lemon and vanilla extracts is
delicious.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
Russian Torte
(Angel Food Cake)
1 cup egg whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup cake flour
4 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon vanilla or al-
1 teaspoon cream of tar-
mond extract
tar
Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour over the
beaten egg whites. Add flavoring and beat until cold.
Mix and sift flour, cream of tartar and salt several times
and fold gradually into egg mixture. Bake fifty minutes
in moderate oven keeping covered with heavy brown
paper for the first fifteen minutes.
Filling
Soak two tablespoons granulated gelatine in one
fourth cup of water for five minutes. Let stand over
boiling water to dissolve. Add one cup powdered sugar,
two tablespoons strong coffee and one eighth teaspoon
salt. Let this mixture stand. Then take eight egg yolks,
beaten well, and add one pint of heavy cream and a tea-
spoon of vanilla. Combine the two mixtures and beat
thoroughly.
Cut the angel food cake into two unequal layers and
spread the mixture between the layers and over the top
and sides. Sprinkle with chopped roasted, brown al-
monds. A delicious dessert.
Mrs. Thomas Roy.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
15
Simple Frosting
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons cold
1 egg white
water
Put ingredients into the upper half of a double boiler
when the water in the lower half has come to a boil. Beat
the three together while cooking, with a Dover beater,
for seven minutes. Add a teaspoon of vanilla and a pinch
of salt and spread on cake. To vary frosting, add a tea-
spoon of cocoa before cooking or chopped nuts and cher-
ries after cooking.
Helen Hawk Carlisle.
Sour Cream Cake
2 eggs beaten and add-
1 3/4 cups flour
ed to a cup of sour 1 teaspoon baking pow-
cream
der
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
Beat all together and add 1 cup raisins and nutmeats.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Then
beat together and add 1 cup raisins and nutmeats.
Mrs. E. H. Payne.
Spice Cake
1 cup butter
1 teaspoon cloves
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup sour milk
2 cups flour
3 eggs
1 small teaspoon soda
2 cups currants, raisins
dissolved in the sour
or blueberries
milk
3 teaspoons cinnamon
Mrs. Burton.
16
Cakes
Sponge Cake
3 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons baking
1 cup sugar
powder
1/2 cup water
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat whites of eggs in mixing bowl, then add one
yolk at a time and continue beating. Add sugar grad-
ually, then half of the water and half the flour, then re-
maining water and flour and flavoring. Use only a Dover
beater in mixing the cake. Bake in moderate oven. Very
good baked in two layers.
Mrs. E. Larson.
Sunshine Layer Cake
5 egg yolks
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup sweet milk
1/2 teaspoon soda and 1
1 1/3 cups flour
teaspoon cream of
1 teaspoon vanilla
tartar added to flour
White Layer
5 egg whites beaten stiff
1/2 cup pastry flour
with pinch of salt
1 teaspoon cream of tar-
Scant 3/4 cup sugar
tar
Sift flour and cream of tartar several times.
Filling
1 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon corn starch
Boil slowly until thick. Add nuts if desired.
Mrs. E. W. Hart.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
17
Surprise Crullers
Beat two eggs lightly and add half teaspoon salt,
half cup sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Mix
together two cups sifted flour and one and a half tea-
spoons baking powder. Combine the two mixtures and
add a fourth cup of milk. Roll out in two sheets and
cut in rounds, an inch and a half in diameter. In the
centers of half the rounds place a quarter of a teaspoon
of orange marmalade, two seeded raisins and a pinch
of ground cinnamon. Cover with the other round, press
the edges together firmly and fry in deep hot fat. Drain
on brown paper and roll in powdered sugar.
Mrs. Lydia B. Dorsey.
Upside Down Cake
In bottom of round cake pan spread 1 1/2 cups brown
sugar and 2 tablespoons butter. Place 5 or 6 slices of
pineapple on top and pour over them the following batter,
and bake slowly one hour.
Batter
Beat 1 1/2 cups sugar and three egg yolks for fifteen
minutes. Add alternately 1/2 cup of water or pineapple
juice and 1 1/2 cups of flour until used. Add 1 1/2 teaspoons
baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla and a pinch of salt.
Add beaten egg whites. Invert cake and put Maraschino
cherries in centers of pineapple. Serve with whipped
cream.
Mary Pearl Williams.
18
Cakes
White Fruit Cake
1/2 cup butter
3/4 cup grated cocoanut
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup finely cut citron
1 3/4 cups cake flour
1/2 cup Sultana raisins
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1/2 teaspoon each al-
der
mond and vanilla ex-
1/4 teaspoon salt
tract
1/2 cup chopped almonds
5 egg whites
Mrs. Lindemann.
CANDIES
Butter Scotch
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup syrup
1/2 teaspoon salt
Butter, size of an egg
Boil without stirring until, when tried in cold water,
the mixture becomes brittle.
Mrs. Burton.
Chocolate Fudge
2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons cocoa
1/2 cup cream
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup milk
3 tablespoons butter
1 heaping tablespoon
1 teaspoon vanilla
corn starch
Boil sugar, cream, and milk. Mix cocoa, corn starch,
and salt, and add to the boiling mixture. Boil until a
soft ball is formed in water. Add butter and boil until
melted. Pour a little of the mixture into a soup plate,
a little into a second plate, a little into a third plate. Con-
tinue adding a little to each until it is all poured. Beat
what is left sticking to the pan. If it turns hard while
still hot, add a few drops of cream to the fudge mixture
before beating, but do this only after the contents of the
three plates are fully cooled. Beat the fudge until it can
be dropped in small pieces on waxed paper. The vanilla
must be added before beating.
Mrs. Lydia B. Dorsey.
22
Candies
Cocoanut Taffy
1 small can Red Label
2 cups shredded cocoa-
Karo
nut
3 cups sugar
1 small can Carnation
1 large tablespoon but-
Milk
ter
Put on stove and cook until it forms a firm ball in
cold water. Stir to keep from burning. Pour out thin
in buttered pans.
Mrs. David E. Walker.
Date Nut Roll
3 cups sugar
1 cup milk
Boil together, and add a heaping tablespoon of but-
ter, 1 box of dates cut fine and cook until thick. Beat
until cold and add 1/2 cup of nuts and flavoring. Roll
in damp towel, and when chilled, slice.
Mary Pearl Williams.
COOKIES
Almond Cookies (ice-box)
1 cup brown sugar
2 level teaspoons soda
1 cup white sugar
4 1/2 cups of flour
3 eggs
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 pound chopped al-
1 cup melted butter
monds (blanched)
1 cup melted lard
Form in two rolls and allow to stand over night in
a cool place. Cut in slices and bake. This is a large
recipe but good.
Mrs. E. P. Johnson.
Boston Cookies
1 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3 eggs
1 cup chopped English
1 teaspoon soda
walnuts
1 1/2 tablespoons
hot
1/2 cup currants
water
1/2 cup raisins (seeded
3 1/4 cups flour
and chopped)
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and eggs well
beaten. Add soda, dissolved in hot water and half the
flour mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon, then add
nut meats, fruit, and remaining flour. Drop by spoon-
fuls one inch apart on a buttered sheet, and bake in a
moderate oven.
Mrs. Bohn.
Brownies
3/4 cup white sugar
2 squares melted choco-
1/2 cup butter
late
2 eggs
1 cup walnuts
1/2 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Bake in a thin layer on a cooky sheet 10 minutes.
When cool, cut in squares.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
26
Candies
Filled Cookies
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons Cream of
1/2 cup butter
Tartar
1/2 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon soda
Filling
3 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup cold water
1 cup raisins, figs or dates, chopped fine, and boiled
with the sugar, water and flour to make a smooth paste.
Stir constantly to prevent burning.
Spread the paste between pairs of the cookies.
Mrs. T. J. Holmes.
Christmas Nut Ring Cookies
1 pound sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 scant cup butter
1 teaspoon soda (In a
3 eggs
little hot water.)
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs beaten separately.
Flour to stiffen. Roll thin, sprinkle with nuts.
Ruth Salter.
Date Cookies
2/3 cup melted butter
1 teaspoon soda in two
1 cup white sugar
tablespoons of hot
2 eggs
water
1 package of chopped
1/2 cup shelled nuts
dates
2 cups flour
Drop on greased cookie sheet.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
27
Ginger Cookies
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon each cinna-
1/2 cup shortening,
mon and ginger
creamed
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup dark molasses
Flour enough for rather
1/2 cup water
stiff dough
1 teaspoon soda
Mrs. Philip Kinsley.
Ice Box Cookies
3/4 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
3/4 cup brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon soda dis-
1 egg
solved in warm water
Juice of half a lemon
3/4 cup nut meats,
3 cups flour
chopped
1 teaspoon cinnamon
Make long, round roll. Place in ice box over night.
Slice thin and bake.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
Quick Oatmeal Drop Cookies
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon
powdered
1 cup Crisco
ginger
3 cups rolled oats
1 cup stoned dates, cut
2 eggs
fine, or raisins and
1/2 cup sour milk
nuts
1 teaspoon powdered
1 teaspoon baking soda
cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups flour
Cream Crisco and sugar together thoroughly, add
eggs, well beaten, rolled oats, dates, salt, spices, soda
dissolved in milk, and flour. Mix and drop from spoon
on buttered tin. Bake in moderate oven till brown. Suf-
ficient for 50 cookies.
Mrs. Cramer.
28
Cookies
Sugar Cookies I
1/2 cup butter
1/4 cup milk (sweet)
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons b aking
2 eggs
powder
1 teaspoon ginger
3 cups flour, or enough
1 teaspoon nutmeg
to make a soft dough
Bake in quick oven.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Sugar Cookies II
1 cup butter
3 teaspoons vanilla ex-
1 cup sugar
tract
2 eggs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
3 cups flour
der
Beat butter and sugar until light, add eggs and beat
again, add vanilla. Sift flour and baking powder and add.
Roll out thin, sprinkle with sugar, and press a little with
the rolling pin. Cut out with cookie cutter and bake.
Mrs. H. M. Bryant.
Waffle Cookies
2 cups sugar
3 cups flour
1 cup butter
2 teaspoons b aking
4 eggs, beaten
powder
1 cup milk
1 pinch of salt
Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs and milk,
then add flour, baking powder and salt sifted together,
and nutmeg to flavor. Preheat waffle iron ten minutes,
then proceed to bake. It will take about two minutes
for each baking. This recipe makes 48 cookies which
will keep indefinitely.
Mrs. G. C. Wilson.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
29
Cookies or Swedish Crisps
Cream together 1 cup of butter and 1 cup of brown
sugar and add
1 beaten egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups bread crumbs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
(hard and dry)
der
1 1/2 cups of flour
1/2 cup chopped nuts
Roll very thin, cut in shapes and bake in quick oven.
Fudge Squares
3 tablespoons of short-
2/3 cup of milk
ening
2 cups of flour
1 1/2 cups granulated
1 1/2 teaspoons b a king
sugar
powder
2 eggs
1 package of dates cut
2 oz. bitter chocolate
fine
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup walnuts cut fine
Melt shortening, add sugar and unbeaten egg,
add chocolate which has been melted, vanilla and
milk. Add flour which has been sifted with the baking
powder. Add dates and nut meats which have been mix-
ed in some of the flour to prevent falling to the bottom
of pan. Spread thinly in greased tins, bake in a slow
oven from 20 to 35 minutes.
Cut into squares while still warm and before remov-
ing from pan. Makes two layers and may be served with
whipped cream.
Mrs. Erma Volkman,
DESSERTS
Apple Dumplings
6 tart apples, pared and
2 cups flour
cored
Pinch of salt
1 teaspoon baking pow-
2 heaping tablespoons
der
lard or butter
Rub together as though for a pie crust, and add
about 1/2 cup sweet milk. Roll thin and wrap each apple
in part of the dough. Place in shallow pan and pour the
following sauce over them.
Sauce
3 cups light brown
1 tablespoon butter
sugar
3 cups boiling water
1 tablespoon flour
Nutmeg to taste
When dumplings begin to brown, baste with the
sauce as you would a roast.
Mrs. O. R. Marxsen, Jr.
Baked Custard
2 eggs
2 cups milk
1/2 cup sugar (heaping)
Pinch of salt
Nutmeg to taste
Bake twenty minutes.
Mrs. Dunning.
Banana Fluff
Rub two or three ripe bananas through a ricer and
mix with one cup of stiffly whipped cream. Sweeten
to taste, pile in sherbet glasses and sprinkle a little
grated chocolate or cocoa on top. Serve very cold.
Sheila White.
34
Desserts
Candied Apples
Make a syrup of 1 cup water and 1/2 cup sugar.
Cook in it four or five peeled apples until tender.
Serve with whipped cream and nuts.
Mrs. Vincent M. Reed.
Chocolate Ice Box Cake
30 lady fingers
3 tablespoons water
4 eggs separated
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 pound sweet choco-
Small piece butter
late
Line a spring pan with lady fingers, side and bottom.
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler, add sugar and
water with yolks beaten well, cook slowly until thick
and smooth, stirring constantly, beat the whites stiff,
and when chocolate is cold add to the whites. Pour it
on the lady fingers and place more lady fingers on the
top of the filling and set in ice box for 24 hours. When
ready to serve add the whipping cream, over top place
nuts or cherries.
Mrs. E. H. Payne.
Cottage Pudding
1 cup milk
3 tablespoons
melted
2 eggs
butter owt dua
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons o baking
2 cups flour
powder oliq , 03
Bake half an hour.
$0000 TO
Mrs. Dunning.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
35
Chocolate Steam Pudding
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups sifted flour
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg beaten separately
2 t easpoons baking
2 squares chocolate
powder
3/4 cup milk
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolk, then milk
and dry ingredients alternately, then melted chocolate
and lastly fold in beaten egg white. Steam three-quar-
ters of an hour.
Sauce
1 tablespoon butter
1 white of egg beaten
1 cup powdered sugar
stiff
1 egg yolk
1 bottle whipped cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix in order given.
Mrs. J. A. Lytle.
Creamy Rice Pudding
1/3 cup rice
1/2 cup raisins (seed-
4 cups milk (hot)
less)
1/4 cup sugar
Boil rice 5 minutes, then blanch. Add milk to
blanched rice and cook in double boiler for one hour.
Add sugar and raisins and bake one hour or less time
in moderate oven. Stir with long fork every 15 minutes.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
36
Desserts
Date and Nut Divinity Pudding
1 cup dates (ground)
3 egg whites
1 cup nuts (ground)
3 egg yolks
1 cup bread crumbs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup sugar
Mix all except the whites which should be folded in
last, beaten firmly. Bake for thirty minutes and serve
with whipped cream.
Mary Lee Robertson.
Date and Walnut Fingers
2 tablespoons cold
1 cup finely chopped
water
walnuts
1 cup sugar
1 package chopped
3 eggs-separated
dates
1 cup flour
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 teaspoons baking
1/4 teaspoon salt
powder
Cream sugar with yolks, add water, flour, dates, nuts,
vanilla, and salt. Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites.
Bake in moderate oven until golden brown. When cold
cut in pieces three by one inch and roll in powdered
sugar. May be used for luncheon dessert, cut in squares
and served with whipped cream.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet.
Date Pudding
1 cup dates
1 level teaspoon baking
1 cup chopped nuts
powder
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon flour
3 eggs
Bake slowly forty-five minutes. Serve with whipped
cream.
Mrs. Dunning.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
37
Date Suet Pudding
2 cups bread crumbs
2 teaspoons baking
1 cup flour
powder, moistened in
1/2 cup nuts chopped
a little water.
fine
2 eggs beaten in a little
1 cup sugar
milk.
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 box dates
Put mixture in a buttered pan and steam three hours.
Sauce
2/3 cup sugar
Heaping teaspoon flour
Butter size of egg
Mix together and add one cup boiling water. When
cool add one beaten egg and vanilla.
Mrs. Burton.
Fresh Cocoanut Pudding
1 pint whipped cream
Knox's gelatine dis-
Scant half package
solved in water.
Beat cream until stiff, add melted gelatine and grated
half of fresh cocoanut or a can of Baker's cocoanut. Put
in mould and set on ice for two or three hours. When
ready to serve, cover the top and sides with other half
of cocoanut. Serve with maple syrup or fresh strawberry
sauce.
Mrs. O. G. Balfour.
Graham Patties
3/4 packa g crumbed
1/2 cup butter
graham crackers
1 teaspoon water
Mix into a paste and line muffin tins with it by pat-
ting out a ball of the paste until it covers the inside of the
pan. Fill with rich sweetened apple sauce. Bake fifteen
minutes. Cool completely before removing from pans.
Top with whipped cream.
Mrs. Chester Davis.
38
Desserts
Graham Cracker Pudding
Cream together 1/4 cup sugar, and two tablespoons
butter. Add 1 egg well beaten, 1/2 cup milk, 1/2 cup nut
meats cut fine, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon baking
powder, 1 heaping cup graham cracker crumbs. Bake
in buttered dish in moderate oven. Serve with
Golden Sauce
Put in double boiler :
1/3 cup butter
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup milk
When dissolved, beat in the yolks of two eggs and
add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat with Dover beater to
keep from lumping. Serve hot.
Mrs. O. R. Marxsen, Jr.
Ice Box Cake
2 bars German sweet
2 tablespoons b oiling
chocolate
water
2 tablespoons powdered
4 eggs
sugar
18 lady fingers
Dissolve chocolate in water in double boiler. Add
sugar, beat until cold, add yolks one at a time, then the
beaten whites. Line dish with paraffin paper and put
in a layer of split lady fingers, then a layer of the choco-
late mixture and alternate lady fingers and chocolate
with a top layer of lady fingers. Let stand in refrigerator
for 24 hours and serve with whipped cream.
Mrs. Albert Hofstetter, Jr.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
39
Ice Box Cake
1 pound sweet butter
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1 pound 4x sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla
6 eggs
2 dozen lady fingers
1/2 pound blanched al-
monds
Cream butter and sugar, put one egg in at a time,
beat well add flavoring and then almonds.
Place lady fingers upright around side of the pan and
line bottom of it, put in the mixture and place in ice-box
over night. When ready to serve add two bottles of
whipped cream on top.
Mrs. H. R. Hotchkiss.
Ice Box Dessert
12 macaroons
1/2 pint whipping cream
1 cup pecans
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup dry cocoanut
Crumble the macaroons, whip the cream and com-
bine all the ingredients mixed well. Pat mixture firmly
into a buttered glass pie dish and let stand in ice box
twelve hours or more. Serve in squares topped with
whipped cream and cherries.
Mrs. Clyce.
Lemon Pudding
1 cup of sugar
Juice and rind of one
Heaping tablespoon
lemon
flour
Yolk of 2 eggs
Pinch salt
One cup milk
Butter size of walnut
2 whites beaten stiff
Butter pan, set in pan of water, bake 1/2 hour in mod-
erate oven.
Very good and will serve about six.
Mrs. E. P. Johnson.
40
Desserts
Lemon Ice Box Cake
2 1/2 dozen lady fingers
1/2 pound butter
4 eggs, beaten separate-
1 lemon
ly
1 large cup sugar
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, grated
rind and juice of lemon and beaten egg whites. Line
tin with lady fingers, add mixture. Dot with bits of pine-
apple and Maraschino cherries, and alternate mixture
cherries and pineapple with lady fingers until all are used.
Let stand on ice 24 hours and serve with whipped cream.
Mrs. A. L. Kemnitz.
Mrs. J. M. Hammer.
Meringue Dessert
3 egg whites, beaten
stiff
Add slowly while beating one cup granulated sugar,
one teaspoon vinegar and one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in
buttered muffin tins for one hour. Oven temperature
300 degrees. Before serving, remove tops carefully, fill
with fresh or canned fruit mixed with whipped cream
and replace tops.
Mrs. W. H. Blacker.
Pineapple Fluff
1 small flat can of pine-
1/2 pint of whipping
apple, diced
cream
15 marshmallows
Cut marshmallows in small pieces and soak in pine-
apple juice while whipping the cream. Drain marsh-
mallows and mix cream, pineapple, and marshmallows
together. Put in mould and place on ice until cold. A
quick delicious dessert.
B. C. Le Vally.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
41
Pineapple Ice Cream
1 quart milk
1 1/2 level tablespoons
2 eggs
corn starch
1 cup sugar
Heat milk in double boiler, then add sugar and corn
starch mixed smooth in a little milk. Let it boil for one
or two minutes or until it begins to thicken. Remove
from stove and cool. Then stir in the eggs, two cups of
crushed pineapple and half pint of cream. Freeze.
Makes 2 quarts.
Mrs. R. A. Del Prato.
Orange Charlotte
1 1/2 tablespoons heaping
1 cup sugar.
of gelatine
3 tablespoons 1 e m o n
Dissolve in 1/3 cup cold
juice
water and 1/3 cup hot
1 cup orange juice
water.
Let above cool, then beat to a froth and fold in three
egg whites, and two cups whipped cream. Turn into
mould and chill.
Caroline Hesselbaum.
Raspberry Flummery
Boil one cup raspberries in a pint of water, one cup
of sugar and stir in three tablespoons of corn starch
mixed with water. Cook in double boiler until thick and
pour into mold. When cold serve with cream and sugar.
42
Desserts
Snow Pudding
Dissolve half a box of gelatine in one pint of boiling
water. When cool, add the whites of three eggs and beat
to a stiff froth. Add two cups of sugar, the juice of two
lemons and beat again until stiff. Serve with a custard
made of the yolks of three eggs and one whole egg, three
pints of milk and six tablespoonsful of sugar.
Mrs. Gust J. Anderson.
Sponge Pudding
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup flour
Mix with enough milk to make a paste. Add one
pint scalded milk and boil until thick. Add 1/3 cup but-
ter. Beat yolks and whites of five eggs separately. Add
cooked mixture to yolks. Fold in whites and bake in
unbuttered pudding pan about twenty minutes. Set pan
in hot water while baking.
Mrs. W. H. Langewisch.
French, Apple Pudding
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup flour
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon baking
6 or 7 tablespoons milk
powder
Peel and slice apples or fresh peaches very thin, put
in pan and sweeten, add pinch of salt and a little cinna-
mon. Cover with above batter and bake about 1/2 hour.
Serve with cream.
48
Luncheon Dishes
Cheese and Olive Sandwich
1/2 cup stuffed chopped
1 package Philadelphia
olives
cream cheese
Mix thoroughly and spread on thin slices of buttered
bread.
Mrs. R. A. Del Prato.
Cheese Souffle
1/2 pound cheese cut in-
Yolks of 3 eggs
to small pieces
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup bread crumbs
1 cup scalded milk
Mix all together and fold in beaten whites, then
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven.
Sheila White.
Corn and Cheese Souffle
1 cup medium white 1/2 cup grated cheese
sauce
3 eggs
1/2 cup corn
Salt to taste
Add corn, cheese, and slightly beaten egg yolks to
hot white sauce. Cool and fold in stiffly beaten whites,
turn into buttered baking dish and bake for thirty min-
utes.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
MEAT DISHES
Chicken a La King
1 young chicken (about
3 Spanish sweet pep-
3 1/2 pounds)
pers
1/2 pound fresh mush-
1 pint cream
rooms (or one large
1/4 pound butter
can)
4 tablespoons flour
3 green peppers, cut up
1/2 spoon salt
Pinch of pepper
Boil chicken and dice. Scald peppers in chicken
broth. Saute mushrooms, scald cream. Rub flour and
butter together and thicken the cream to which a little
chicken broth has been added. Add seasoning, mush-
rooms, peppers and chicken to sauce and cook slowly for
ten minutes in double boiler. Rub yolks of two hard
boiled eggs with a little cream and add to the mixture
before serving.
Mrs. F. H. Rohles.
Chicken and Macaroni Loaf
1 1/2 c u P S macaroni-
2/3 cup blanched and
broken up small
chopped almonds
1 1/2 cups cheese
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped chicken
1/8 teaspoon grated nut-
2 eggs
meg
1/2 cup cream
Pinch of mustard
Cook macaroni until tender, combine with chicken,
almonds and grated cheese: Mix thoroughly, add eggs
well beaten, seasonings and cream. Mix thoroughly, but
lightly and turn into a well buttered mold. Cover and
steam for two hours. Remove and invert mold over dish
in which loaf is to be served. Let stand a few minutes
before lifting mold. Serve with tomato sauce poured
around loaf.
60
Meat Dishes
Meat Loaf
2 pounds round steak
2 eggs
1 pound lean pork,
1 cup cracker crumbs
ground fine
Scant teaspoon salt
1 cup cooked tomatoes
Form into loaf and press hard into paper lined pan,
with several strips of bacon on top. Bake slowly for half
an hour and rapidly for fifteen minutes. Make gravy
from liquid which exudes.
Mrs. A. L. Kemnitz.
Oriental Stew
3 pounds veal
1 cup nut meats
1/2 can tomatoes
Cut meat in small pieces and brown in butter in
which a sliced onion has been browned. Strain the to-
matoes and add to the meat. Cook one and a half hours.
Boil one cup of rice, heat the nuts in butter, sprinkle over
the rice and serve with the meat mixture.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
Pork Chops With Apples
6 pork chops
1/2 cup raisins
3 tablespoons flour
3 tart apples
1/4 teaspoon sage
1 tablespoon vinegar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup brown sugar
2 cups hot water
Sprinkle chops with sage and salt and brown in pan.
Remove to shallow baking dish. On each chop place
half an apple, pared, cored and filled with brown sugar.
Into the fat in the pan put flour and salt; brown, adding
water to make gravy. Bring to boil. Add vinegar and
raisins. Pour over chops and bake until apples are ten-
der.
Mrs. E. H. Holtz.
62
Meat Dishes
Steamed Salmon Loaf
1 large can salmon
1 tablespoon
1 e m o n
2 cups cracker or bread
juice or vinegar
crumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 beaten eggs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
2 tablespoons
melted
der
butter
Mix and form in loaf, wrap in cloth and steam three-
quarters of an hour.
Sauce
1/4 cup canned tomato 2 t a b 1 e S p o O n S corn
soup
starch
1 beaten egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
Dash of red pepper
Add grated yellow cheese and pour over salmon loaf.
Garnish with lemon and parsley.
Mrs. Vincent M. Reed.
Salmon Turbot
1 tall can salmon
2 eggs
2 tablespoons melted
1 pint sweet milk
butter
Bread crumbs
1 tablespoon flour
Drain juice from salmon, take out bones and skin,
and break salmon in small pieces.
Make sauce by melting butter and adding flour and
milk. When hot, but not boiling, add eggs well beaten.
Put a layer of salmon in buttered baking dish, then
a layer of sauce and so on until salmon and sauce are
used up. Sprinkle top with crumbs and bake in moderate
oven about a half hour.
Lauraette Cornett.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
63
Shepherd's Pie
1 1/2 pounds of lamb
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 cup sliced onions
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup cut carrots
4 potatoes
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons parsley
Wipe meat, put on to boil with 2 quarts of water and
cook slowly one hour. Add seasonings and vegetables
except potatoes. Cook until tender, then remove 4 cups
of the juice (can be kept for soup stock). To the re-
mainder in the kettle, add flour thickening and boil five
minutes. Boil and mash potatoes, put around the edge
of an agate platter. Put the meat in the center, dust
with paprika, brown in moderate oven and sprinkle with
parsley.
Mrs. H. Cox.
Escalloped Shrimps
1 cup bread crumbs
1/8 teaspoon paprika
1 cup cooked tomatoes
2 cups cooked or canned
or canned tomatoes
shrimps
1 tablespoon minced
1 chopped green pepper
parsley
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
Sprinkle bottom of greased casserole with 1/2 cup
bread crumbs. Cover bottom with tomatoes, adding
parsley, salt and paprika. Put in a layer of shrimps,
then a layer of green pepper which has been sauted in
butter. Repeat layers of tomatoes, seasoning, shrimps
and green peppers until all are used. Cover top with re-
maining 1/2 cup bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter
and sprinkle with paprika. Coak in moderate oven
about one half hour.
Sheila White.
64
Meat Dishes
Italian Spaghetti
1/2 pound chopped pork
1 onion, chopped
1/2 pound chopped beef
1/4 teaspoon ground
1/2 pound chopped veal
cloves
1 can tomatoes
1 bay leaf
1 green pepper, chopped
1 cup mushrooms
1 large clove of garlic,
2 tablespoons olive oil
chopped
1 teaspoon butter
Cook spaghetti separately until soft. Pour paste
over it.
Mrs. Burton.
Italian Spaghetti
1 can Italian tomato
1/8 teaspoon c a y e n n e
paste
pepper
1/4 pound bacon, cut fine
1 can mushrooms
2 large onions, cut fine
2 teaspoons c hopped
1 green pepper, cut fine
parsley
1 small can of pimientos
1 cup grated Parmesan
1/2 teaspoon paprika
cheese
1 teaspoon salt
1 package spaghetti
Boil spaghetti until soft. Fry bacon, add chopped
onions and fry gently until light brown. Add green
pepper, chopped, and continue frying. Add chopped
pimiento, parsley, mushrooms and seasoning. Add to-
mato paste and cook slowly for five minutes, stirring
to prevent sticking. Put layer of spaghetti in a baking
dish, cover with cheese and a layer of sauce, then alter-
nate layers of cheese and sauce with layers of spaghetti
until the dish is full, having a layer of sauce and cheese
on top. Bake slowly for 1 hour.
1/2 pound of chopped round steak may be added if
desired.
Mrs. John Jones.
MUFFINS AND HOT BREADS
Ice Box Biscuits
1 medium sized potato,
2 cups flour
boiled and mashed
Salt
3/4 cup lard. Add to
1/2 cup sugar
mashed potato and 1
cup potato water
While potato is boiling, dissolve 1 yeast cake in 1/2
cup warm milk, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 eggs beaten, and let
rise 20 minutes. Add 3 cups of flour, and the first mix-
ture.
Place in ice box and let rise till ready to use. Then
knead lightly and pinch off small bits. Roll in buttered
hands and place 3 of these in greased muffin tins. Let
rise from 2 1/2 to 3 hours in warm room. Bake in hot oven
twelve or fifteen minutes.
The dough may be kept in ice box several days,
kneading down when light and rolling out only enough
for immediate use.
Mrs. W. E. Jameson.
Bran Muffins
1 cup of sugar
1 cup of milk in which
1 tablespoon each of
1 teaspoon of baking
butter and Crisco
powder has been add-
1 pinch of salt
ed (sweet or sour milk
1 egg
may be used)
1 1/2 cups of flour
1/2 cup of bran and a
few raisins
Method. Mix in order given, will make 16 buns.
Bake in moderate oven for 1/2 hour.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
79
Bunskets
1 tablespoon lard
1 egg well beaten
1/3 cup of sugar
4 cups of flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 yeast cake.
1 cup boiling water
Knead in solid ball and raise 4 hours. Punch down
and raise 2 hours more. Put in ice-box over night.
Make into very tiny balls and put in greased pan
and allow to rise 4 hours and bake in moderate oven.
These are delicious.
Mrs. E. P. Johnson.
Coffee Cake
(Old recipe-1864)
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup molasses
1 teaspoon soda
4 cups flour
2 teaspoons cream of
1 cup strong coffee
tartar
1 egg
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 pound raisins
Mrs. D. McGrath.
Crumb Coffee Cake
3 cups flour
Pinch of salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup shortening
Crumb together, and save 3/4 cup of the mixture for
the top of the cake. Add one egg, one teaspoon cinna-
mon, 1/2 teaspoon cloves, and 1 teaspoon soda in a cup
of sour milk. Before putting in oven sprinkle top with
the 3/4 cup crumbs. Bake in moderate oven. Will make
two cakes 8 by 10 inches. Good hot or cold.
Mrs. E. Larson.
80
Muffins and Hot Breads
Ginger Bread
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
2 tablespoons molasses
1 egg
4 tablespoons m elted
1 cup sour milk
butter
2 cups well sifted flour
1 level teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon mixed spice
Stir well together sugar, molasses, butter, salt and
spices, then add egg and sour milk and soda. Pour in
flour, beat until smooth. Bake in moderate oven 40 to
60 minutes.
Mrs. Cramer.
Soft Ginger Bread
1 cup molasses
Lard and butter the size
1 egg
of an egg
1 teaspoon ginger
Pinch of salt
Stir stiff with flour and add 1 cup of boiling water
and one teaspoon of soda.
Mrs. E. C. Carey.
Griddle Cakes
1 cup sour milk (thick)
1/2 teaspoon soda
Flour enough to make
1/2 teaspoon salt
thin batter
1 tablespoon (heaping)
1 teaspoon baking pow-
corn meal
der
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
81
Ice Box Rolls
1 cup sugar
2 cakes Fleischmann's
1 cup lard
yeast
1 cup boiling water
1 level teaspoon salt
1 cup cold water
Flour to mix fairly stiff
2 eggs
Put in ice box over night and take out in the morn-
ing, let rise, then put in pan and bake when light.
Nut Bread
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons baking pow-
1 egg
der
1 1/2 cups milk
1 teaspoon salt
4 cups flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
Form in loaf. Let stand 1/2 hour in warm place.
Bake in slow oven about 1 hour.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
Nut Bread
2 eggs
3 teaspoons baking pow-
1 cup white sugar
der
1 cup sweet milk
2 tablespoons melted
1/2 teaspoon salt
shortening put in the
1 cup broken nuts
milk
3 1/2 cups flour
Fill pans half full, let stand twenty minutes, then
bake forty-five minutes.
Mrs. E. C. Carey.
82
Muffins and Hot Breads
Muffins
2 cups flour
4 tablespoons sugar
4 teaspoons baking pow-
2 eggs (separate eggs)
der
1 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup butter (melt)
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Muffins
1 1/2 cups flour
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 level tablespoons but-
3 teaspoons baking pow-
ter
der
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar
Mix dry ingredients, adding beaten egg, milk and
butter. Bake in moderate oven.
Mrs. E. H. Holtz.
Blueberry Muffins
1 egg
2 rounding teaspoons
1/2 cup sweet milk
cream tartar, and 1
1/2 cup cream
teaspoon soda sifted
2 tablespoons sugar
with 2 cups flour and
1/2 teaspoon salt.
Fold in half cup blueberries. Have tins hot and
bake in moderately hot oven.
Mrs. J. W. Young.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
83
Bran Muffins
1 egg (do not separate)
2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 cups flour
2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon salt
(melt the butter)
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1 cup sour milk (thick)
der
1 cup Pillsbury's bran
1/2 teaspoon soda
Beat egg, add sour milk and beat together, then add
flour, salt, baking powder, soda, and sugar, which have
been sifted together three times. Add melted butter and
bran, and bake in muffin pans. (The batter should be
thick).
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Can't Fail Breakfast Muffins
1 egg well beaten
1
teaspoon sugar
1 rounded tablespoon
1 teaspoon salt
butter
Beat these ingredients together until light, then add
one cup milk, two cups flour, sifted, with two teaspoons
of baking powder. Drop in well greased muffin rings and
bake twenty minutes in quick oven. Serve with butter
and syrup.
Mrs. Dwight Smith.
Field's Potato Flour Muffins
4 eggs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1/4 teaspoon salt
der
1/2 cup white potato
2 tablespoons ice water
flour
1 tablespoon sugar
Beat whites of eggs very stiff and dry. Add salt
and sugar to beaten yolks and fold into whites. Sift flour
and baking powder twice and beat thoroughly into egg
mixture. Add ice water last. Bake in moderate oven
from fifteen to twenty minutes.
Mrs. H. M. Hollinger.
84
Muffins and Hot Breads
Scotch Drop Scones
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon saleratus
2 teaspoons cream of
Butter the size of an egg
tartar. (only 1 tea-
1 tablespoon of sugar
spoon if using sour
milk.)
Mix soft with milk, drop on greased griddle and
keep turning griddle around to cook them evenly. Turn
when one side is done and cook on the other.
Sheila White.
Superior Muffins
3 tablespoons sugar
Cream together and add
1 rounding tablespoon
1 egg well beaten
lard or butter
Sift together 2 cups flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking pow-
der. Add alternately to first mixture with one cup of
milk. Bake in greased muffin tin in hot oven for about
12 minutes. If corn meal muffins are desired substitute
1 cup of cornmeal for 1 cup of the flour.
Mrs. Karl Fisher.
Surprise Muffins
2 cups flour or
3 teaspoons baking
1 cup flour
powder
1 cup graham flour
1 tablespoon sugar
or
1/4 tsp. salt
1 cup flour
2 eggs
1 cup cornmeal
2 tablespoons shorten-
1 cup milk
ing
Sift flour and mix dry ingredients. Add milk, eggs,
and melted shortening. Mix and put tablespoon batter
in muffin tin. Drop in center of each 1 teaspoon currant
jelly or strawberry jam, or date, etc. Add another spoon
of batter and bake 20 to 25 minutes.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
85
Cheese Biscuits
Delicious with Fruit Salad
1 cup of flour
2 tablespoons of butter
2 1/2 teas. of baking pow-
3/8 cup of milk a nd
der
water
1/2 teas. of salt (scant)
Mix all together as you do baking powder biscuits
and then add one half cup of grated cheese.
E. Weidenmiller.
PIES
Butter Scotch Pie
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
Melt together until brown and creamy.
Yolks of 2 eggs
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons flour
Mix together and pour into sugar and butter mix-
ture. Cook slowly over a low flame until smooth. Put
into double boiler and cook one hour. Put into previous-
ly cooled pie shell and top with meringue made of whites
of 2 eggs and 1/2 cup sugar. Bake in moderate oven.
Mrs. William G. Clark.
Chocolate Pie
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 squares bitter choco-
2 eggs, separated
late, dissolved in 2
2 level tablespoons corn
tablespoons boiling
starch
water.
Heat milk in double boiler, then add chocolate, salt,
yolks of eggs, sugar, and corn starch mixed smooth in a
little milk, and stir until it thickens. Turn the custard
into a baked crust and cover the pie with the whites of
eggs beaten to a froth with two tablespoons of powdered
sugar and vanilla. Brown meringue in oven.
Mrs. R. A. Del Prato.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
97
Delicious Lemon Pie
4 beaten egg yolks
Juice of one lemon
1 cup sugar
Grated rind of one
lemon
Cook in double boiler until thick. Add half of the
four egg whites which have been beaten stiff. Fill a
baked pastry shell with the mixture, cover with the re-
maining meringue and brown.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
Lemon Cake Pie.
1 cup sugar
2 egg yolks well beaten
2 rounding tablespoons
Heaping tablespoon but-
flour
ter, melted
Grated rind and juice of
1 cup milk
two medium sized
lemons
Beat well together, then add stiffly beaten whites
and bake in slow oven, in a pastry lined pie tin' until
golden brown.
Mrs. Karl Fisher.
Spice Pie.
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 cup cream
1 teaspoon nutmeg, cin-
3 egg yolks
namon, cloves, all-
2 tablespoons flour
spice
Put in pie crust and bake with meringue on top.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
107
.
Mayonnaise Dressing
1 teaspoon sugar
1 a b 1 e S poon water
1 teaspoon mustard
(cold)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg (whole)
1
tablespoon 1 e m
Beat all well with Dover
juice
egg beater
1 tablespoon vinegar
Pour into the mixture slowly 1 pint of Wesson oil,
beating all the time. (POUR-not drop by drop.)
Can be made in less than 5 minutes.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Mayonnaise Without Oil
3 eggs well beaten
1 dessert spoon sugar
1/2 cup lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon mustard
3/4 tin Eagle Brand con-
densed milk
Mix thoroughly and beat until thick and fluffy.
Mrs. Shaughnessy.
Pineapple Mayonnaise
Juice from a large can
1 tablespoon corn
of pineapple
starch
Juice of 1 lemon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
2 eggs, beaten slightly
Mix dry ingredients, add juice and eggs, cook in
double boiler until thick and when cool add lemon juice.
Fold in 1/2 pint of whipped cream and serve on fruit
salad.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet.
108
Salads and Dressings
Fish Salad
Left over baked or boiled fish makes a good salad.
Remove bones, fat and skin and chop the fish coarsely,
cut an equal quantity of celery as fine as for chicken
salad, add to fish and mix with mayonnaise. Serve on
crisp lettuce leaf.
Mrs. Mary McKee.
Thousand Island Dressing
1 cup m ayonnaise e
1/4 cup Heinz chili sauce
dressing
Pepper and salt
2 tablespoons 1emon
2 eggs (hard boiled)
juice
1 can pimento
2 tablespoons vinegar
12 olives
1/4 cup Heinz catsup
Onion heart
Chop fine and add to mayonnaise mixture.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Russian Dressing
2/3 cup oil
1/2 cup boiled mayon-
1/3 cup vinegar
naise
1/2 teaspoon each of salt,
1 teaspoon chives
pepper, and paprika
3 teaspoons chopped pi-
1/4 teaspoon French
mentos
mustard
3 teaspoons chili sauce
Mrs. Burton.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
109
Salad Cheese Ring (With Fruit Salad)
2 tablespoons Knox
To this add
Gelatine
3 cream cheese mashed
1/4 cup cold water and
with 1 teaspoon sugar
let stand 5 minutes,
1/2 teaspoon salt and a
add boiling water to
little pepper
fill the cup
8 tablespoons vinegar
1 pint whipped cream
Put in mold until hard and serve with fruit salad
with either cooked dressing or mayonnaise.
Mrs. David Suttle,
RECIPES
MEASUREMENTS
ARE ALL LEVEL
Doughnuts, Biscuits, Shortcake
CAN'T-FAIL DOUGHNUTS (Sweet Milk)
RECIPE NO. 1
(This makes about 30)
4 cupfuls sifted flour
1 cupful sugar
2 level teaspoonfuls salt
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
5 level teaspoonfuls baking
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
powder
7/8 cupful sweet milk
1 level teaspoonful nutmeg
2 beaten eggs
Sift the flour before measuring. Then sift
together the flour, salt, baking powder and nutmeg.
Add sugar; then VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil. Beat
the eggs, stir in the milk and mix all together. Turn
out on a well floured board, roll 1/4 inch thick, cut
with doughnut cutter and fry in deep, hot VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL.
CAN'T-FAIL DOUGHNUTS (Sour Milk)
RECIPE NO. 2
4 cupfuls sifted flour
1 tablespoonful VITTUCCI
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
4 teaspoonfuls baking
1 cupful thick sour milk
powder
1/4 teaspoonful soda
1 teaspoonful nutmeg
2 beaten eggs
1 cupful sugar
Measure flour after sifting; then sift again with
salt, baking powder and nutmeg. Add sugar; then
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Stir soda into sour
7
Eggs, Omelets and Cheese Dishes
ITALIENNE SCRAMBLED EGGS
RECIPE NO. 5
Break the required number of eggs in a bowl. To
6 eggs slightly beaten with a fork, add 1 cupful of
canned tomatoes, salt, pepper and paprika to taste
and a few drops of onion juice. Scramble the eggs
in 4 tablespoonfuls hot VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil.
CLAM OMELET
RECIPE NO. 6
(This Omelet contains a great amount of nourishment)
Make plain omelet (Recipe No. 7). Have ready
a sauce made as follows:
1 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/2 cupful clams and liquor
Salt and pepper to taste
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
Heat the milk and clams. Mix together the
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL and flour and stir into
the liquid when hot. Season to taste. Just before
turning the omelet, spread half with some of this
sauce, fold over, remove to hot platter and pour
balance around.
PLAIN OMELET
RECIPE NO. 7
4 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls water
Dash pepper
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Add the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil to the eggs
and beat slightly; then add the water, salt and pepper.
Pour a little VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil in an omelet
or frying pan and when hot, carefully pour in the
9
BRAISED HAMBURGER STEAK
RECIPE NO. 26
Form hamburger steak into a large flat cake,
mixing with it 1 tablespoonful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
OLIVE Oil for each pound of steak. Heat 2 table-
spoonfuls VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL in a skillet
and when hot, lay in the steak and brown quickly
on both sides. Then pour over it just enough milk
to come to the top. Let cook slowly until the liquid
is almost entirely absorbed. Season with salt and
pepper, remove to a hot platter and garnish with
parsley. Make gravy and pour over it.
BEEF LOAF
RECIPE NO. 27
2 pounds round steak
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
1/2 pound salt pork
1 teaspoonful sage
1 egg slightly beaten
1/2 teaspoonful sweet
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
marjoram
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
1/2 cupful fine dry bread
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
crumbs
1 cupful milk
Have the meat chopped fine. Mix all together,
form in a loaf. Put into a well oiled bread pan and
bake in a moderate oven about forty minutes. Serve
hot or cold.
ECONOMICAL BEEF LOAF, WITH RICE
A L' ITALIENNE
RECIPE NO. 28
1 pound Hamburg steak
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
1 cupful dry bread crumbs
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 tablespoonful minced onion
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2 teaspoonfuls salt
Mix all together, form into a loaf, place in a
baking pan with 1/2 cupful boiling water and bake in
a moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes, basting occasion-
ally. Serve on a hot platter surrounded with Rice
all' Italienne, Recipe No. 55.
19
VEAL AND BEEF LOAF
RECIPE NO. 29
(Makes 2 loaves)
1 pound fresh lean veal
1 teaspoonful pepper
2 pounds beef
1/4 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1 small grated onion
OLIVE Oil
1 tablespoonful allspice
1 cupful bread crumbs
1 tablespoonful salt
2 eggs slightly beaten
Have the meat chopped fine and freed from
gristle and fat. Mix all together, make into two
loaves. Roll in fine bread crumbs and put together
in the same pan. Make three or four creases across
the top of each and in the creases put a little sweet
or sour cream. Bake in a moderate oven about 2 1/2
hours. Excellent either hot or cold.
CANNELON OF BEEF AND RICE
RECIPE NO. 30
2 pounds chopped round steak
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
2 teaspoonfuls salt
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2 teaspoonfuls onion juice
3/4 cupful water or stock
1 slightly beaten egg
Boil 2 cupfuls of rice until tender. Make a meat
loaf of the above. Oil a roasting pan, set in the
loaf and surround with the rice. Pour over all a cup-
ful of boiling water, cover closely and bake in a mod-
erate oven about 45 minutes.
ROUND STEAK EN CASSEROLE
RECIPE NO. 31
2 pounds or more round steak
1/4 bayleaf
cut thick
Sprig parsley, minced
1/2 pound macaroni boiled
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
until tender
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1 cupful boiling water
Pound the steak and cut into pieces about an inch
wide and two inches long. Oil a casserole or baking
dish and lay in the boiled macaroni. Cover it with the
20
meat and pour over it the oil and hot water, and, if
liked, 1/2 cupful tomato juice. Cover tightly and
cook in a moderate oven 2 1/2 to 3 hours, adding more
boiling water if necessary. About half an hour be-
fore done, season to taste with salt and pepper. When
done, thicken the gravy with a little flour well mixed
with an equal quantity of VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE
Oil and cook two or three minutes more.
HAMBURG STEAK BALLS
RECIPE NO. 32
1 pound chopped round steak
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful chopped
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
parsley
4 drops onion juice
Mix all together and form into flat cakes. Heat
three tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL in
the frying pan and when hot put in the balls and fry.
Serve with Tomato Sauce, Recipes Nos. 64 or 65.
VEAL PATTIES
RECIPE NO. 33
1 pound raw finely chopped
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
veal
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
1/2 cupful fine cracker crumbs
Salt and Pepper to taste
1 egg
Mix together, form into cutlets, dip in flour, then
in beaten egg, then fine bread crumbs and fry in hot
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Put a small piece of
uncooked macaroni in the end of each to resemble a
bone.
STUFFED PORK TENDERLOIN
RECIPE NO. 34
Have the tenderloins split lengthwise but not cut
through, and pounded flat. Spread VITTUCCI VIRGIN
OLIVE Oil over the inside, then stuff with dressing
91
FISH OR POULTRY DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 41
1/3 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
2 level teaspoonfuls salt
OLIVE Oil
1/4 level teaspoonfuls pepper
1 1/2 cupfuls fine dry homemade
1 level teaspoonful sage
bread crumbs with
Pinch of thyme
1 1/2 cupfuls cracker crumbs
Pinch of savory
or
1 teaspoonful onion juice
2 1/2 cupfuls fine dry bakers'
bread crumbs with
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
Mix together the crumbs and seasonings. Pour
over them the oil, then the boiling water. Mix well.
OYSTER DRESSING FOR POULTRY
RECIPE NO. 42
The quantity given is sufficient for an ordinary
roasting chicken. For turkey, triple or quadruple the
quantity.
1 1/2 cupfuls dry bread crumbs
A few celery seed
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
1/2 pint oysters
1/4 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Salt, pepper, thyme and
OLIVE OIL
sage to taste
1 teaspoonful onion juice
1 cupful boiling water
1 tablespoonful minced
parsley
Mix all together and stuff.
26
Sauces
++++
ANCHOVY SAUCE FOR MACARONI
OR SPHAGETTI
RECIPE NO. 57
Small can of Italian Salt
A little parsley
Anchovies
2 sections of garlic
Small bunch of celery
2 small onions
Wash anchovies and remove bone. Chop every-
thing together fine. Place in a pan with half a cup
of VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL, stir continually and
cook until brown. Then add one can of tomatoes;
salt and pepper to taste and cook very slowly for about
two hours.
(Sufficient to serve eight people)
BECHAMEL SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 58
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
3/4 cupful chicken stock
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1/2 cupful cream
3 tablespoonfuls flour
1 egg yolk
1/2 teaspoonful (scant) salt
Dash paprika
Mix the flour and VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
very smooth, then add the beaten egg yolk; stir well,
and add the cream and chicken stock gradually.
Season and let stand over boiling water for five or
six minutes.
CHEESE SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 59
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
3/4 cupful strong cheese,
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
grated fine
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1 tablespoonful minced
1 egg yolk
parsley
1 cupful milk
Beat the egg yolk slightly and add to the milk.
Put the oil and flour in a saucepan over the fire and
32
stir in the liquid gradually. Cook, stirring constantly
until thick. Season to taste with salt and pepper and
a dash of cayenne. Beat in the grated cheese, remove
at once from the fire and add the minced parsley.
Serve hot. Especially good with fish, asparagus or
cauliflower.
TARTARE SAUCE NO. 1
RECIPE NO. 60
1 cupful Mayonnaise
1 tablespoonful finely minced
1/2 tablespoonful finely minced
olives
capers
2 tablespoonfuls finely minced
sweet gherkins
Prepare the Mayonnaise, then add the minced
capers, olives and pickles. Serve with fish.
TARTARE SAUCE NO. 2
RECIPE NO. 61
1 cupful Mayonnaise
2 tablespoonfuls minced dill
2 tablespoonfuls minced
or sour pickle
canned pimento
Prepare the Mayonnaise, then add the finely
minced pimento and pickle.
TARTARE SAUCE NO. 3
RECIPE NO. 62
1 cupful Mayonnaise
1 small dill pickle, minced
1/2 cupful finely chopped
cabbage
Prepare the Mayonnaise, Recipe No. 94, then
add the chopped cabbage and minced pickle.
MINT SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 63
1/2 cupful finely minced mint
1/2 teaspoonful salt
leaves
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 tablespoonful powdered
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
sugar
1/2 cupful mild vinegar
Mix all together. Serve with lamb or mutton.
33
TOMATO SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 64
1 can tomatoes
1/4 bayleaf
1 medium sized onion, sliced
Salt and pepper to taste
1 clove
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 sprig parsley
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
3 tablespoonfuls flour
Put all together excepting the oil and flour and
simmer gently for 10 to 15 minutes. Strain through
a sieve.
Mix the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL and flour to
a smooth paste and stir in. Return to the fire and
cook slowly three or four minutes.
This is an excellent sauce for use with fish or
meat, or added to rice or macaroni.
TOMATO SAUCE NO. 2
RECIPE NO. 65
1 tablespoonful VITTUCCI
1/2 pint strained tomatoes
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoonful flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful onion juice
Strain the tomatoes, add onion juice, bay leaf
and salt. Rub oil and flour together in a saucepan;
add the tomato and stir until boiling; stand in hot
water for 10 minutes, strain and it is ready for use.
PARSLEY SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 66
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 tablespoonful minced
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
parsley
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Cayenne pepper to taste
Mix together and serve with steak or fish.
34
Salad Dressings
BOILED SALAD DRESSING (Sweet Milk)
RECIPE NO. 88
1/2 tablespoonful salt
2 egg yolks slightly beaten
Few grains cayenne
3/4 cupful sweet milk
1 1/2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/4 cupful vinegar
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1 teaspoonful mustard
OLIVE OIL
Mix the dry ingredients and add the eggs slightly
beaten. Stir well, then add the milk gradually. Put
on the fire in a double boiler and stir till hot, then pour
in the vinegar very slowly and cook until thick. When
thick, remove from the fire and add the oil very slowly.
When cold, and just before serving, dilute, if desired,
with whipped cream. Plain cream may be substituted
if preferred.
BOILED SALAD DRESSING (Sour Milk)
RECIPE NO. 89
1/2 tablespoonful salt
1 cupful sour milk
1 1/2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/4 teaspoonful soda
2 1/2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/4 cupful vinegar
1 teaspoonful mustard
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Few grains cayenne
OLIVE OIL
1 egg yolk
Mix the dry ingredients (except the soda) and
add the egg. Stir till well mixed. Dissolve the soda
in the sour milk and add. Put on the fire in a double
boiler and stir frequently until hot, then add the vine-
gar very slowly and cook until thick, stirring almost
constantly. When thick, remove from the fire and
pour in the oil very slowly. Just before serving,
dilute with plain or whipped cream.
41
PLAIN FRENCH DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 90
1 tablespoonful vinegar
Salt, pepper and paprika to
4 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
suit taste
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Put salt, pepper, paprika, vinegar and olive oil in
a small bowl and mix well, then pour over salad when
ready to serve. Lemon juice can be used instead of
vinegar.
FRENCH DRESSING (With Tomato Catsup)
RECIPE NO. 91
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
3/4 teaspoonful salt
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1/8 teaspoonful pepper
1 tablespoonful vinegar
Dash cayenne or paprika
2 teaspoonfuls tomato
catsup
Mix all together and pour over a green salad.
PERFECTION FRENCH DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 92
1/4 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/s teaspoonful pepper
OLIVE OIL
Few grains paprika
1 tablespoonful tarragon
4 drops onion juice
vinegar
Garlic
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Roquefort cheese
Rub the mixing bowl with a bruised clove of
garlic. Remove the garlic and mix together all in-
gredients but the cheese. When well mixed, break in
bits of roquefort cheese and beat till creamy. Excel-
lent served with cauliflower, asparagus, spinach or fish
salads.
FRUIT FRENCH DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 93
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 tablespoonful powdered
1/4 teaspoonful paprika
sugar
1/4 cupful orange juice
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
QLIVE OIL
Mix all together and serve with fruit salads.
Excellent on a salad of oranges, celery and nuts.
42
VITTUCCI MAYONNAISE
RECIPE NO. 94
4 egg yolks
1 pint VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Salt, white pepper, mustard
OLIVE Oil
Few grains cayenne or
4 teaspoonfuls lemon juice
paprika
Put all ingredients except lemon juice and olive
oil in bowl and mix well with egg beater, then add
olive oil, drop by drop. When the mixture is of good
consistency the oil may be added faster. When it is
too thick to beat well add a little lemon juice, then
add more oil, and so on alternately until both lemon
juice and olive oil are used. Utensils should be cold.
Stir all one way. This recipe is very simple and makes
the most delicious Mayonnaise for all kinds of salads
-fruit, vegetable, fish, etc.
(Above sufficient for eight persons.)
EGGLESS MAYONNAISE
RECIPE NO. 95
1 teaspoonful dry mustard
1/3 cupful vinegar or lemon
1 teaspoonful cold water
juice
1 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Salt, cayenne and paprika
OLIVE OIL
to taste
Put mustard in bottom of mixing bowl and stir
in the water till smooth. Add oil very slowly, at first
drop by drop, stirring vigorously. As it thickens,
dilute with part of the vinegar, then add oil and vine-
gar alternately, stirring constantly. Season to taste
with salt, cayenne and paprika.
In making this Mayonnaise, be sure the water
and mustard are mixed until very smooth before add-
ing oil, or it will not be successful.
43
MAP OF ITALY MAYONNAISE
RECIPE NO. 96
2 egg yolks (1 will answer)
1 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/2 teaspoonful dry mustard
OLIVE OIL
1 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful vinegar
1/8 teaspoonful paprika
1/2 tablespoonful lemon juice
Few grains cayenne
Put egg yolks and seasonings in bowl and mix.
Then add oil, at first drop by drop, mixing in
thoroughly, then a little faster, beating constantly.
When too thick to beat well, add the vinegar, then
more oil, then lemon and oil until all is used.
Two egg yolks make a richer Mayonnaise, but
one will answer if preferred.
of
44
Cakes, Pies and Fillings
WHITE LAYER CAKE
RECIPE NO. 97
1/3 cupful butter
2 rounding teaspoonfuls
1 1/4 cupfuls sugar
baking powder
1/2 cupful milk
3 egg whites
1 3/4 cupful flour (measured
1 teaspoonful vanilla
after sifting)
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and
work together until very creamy. Sift the flour and
baking powder together and add, alternately with
the milk, to the butter and sugar. Beat the whites
very stiff and dry and fold in; add vanilla and bake.
The oven should be very slow until batter rises to its
full capacity (about double its bulk), then increase
the heat and bake until the cake shrinks from sides
of pan. When cool spread with either the Chocolate
Cake Filling or Lemon €ake Filling, Recipes Nos.
101 and 102.
CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS
RECIPE NO. 98
(These ECLAIRS are very easy to make and are perfect. No
flavor of oil can be detected.)
1 cupful hot water
1 cupful unsifted flour
1/3 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/4 teaspoonful salt
OLIVE Oil
3 unbeaten eggs
Put the water and VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
together and when boiling, stir in the flour and salt.
Remove from the fire at once. Cool. When cool drop
in the unbeaten eggs. Beat all together vigorously for
5 or 6 minutes or until very smooth. Drop from a
tablespoon onto buttered pans in oblong shape, about
an inch wide and four inches long. Allow about four
inches between each to permit of spreading. Bake in
a moderately hot oven for 30 minutes.
45
Immediately upon removing from the oven,
spread upon the top of each a little melted chocolate
sweetened with a little pulverized sugar. When cold
split open one side and put in a spoonful of the fol-
lowing custard:
CUSTARD FOR ECLAIR FILLING
1 cupful sugar
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 cupful unsifted flour
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Pinch salt
1 pint milk
2 eggs slightly beaten
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls vanilla
Mix sugar and flour, add eggs slightly beaten
and salt. Mix well. then add VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE
OIL, then the milk gradually. Cook in a double boiler
until very thick, stirring almost constantly. When
partially cool, add vanilla. When cold, fill the eclairs.
PHILADELPHIA CREAM PIE
RECIPE NO. 99
2 eggs
3/4 teaspoonful baking powder
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful flour (measured
1/2 cupful boiling water
after sifting)
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls vanilla
Beat eggs together and stir in sugar. Add boiling
water. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt
and sift in; then add vanilla and beat smooth. Pour
into two well greased cake pans and bake in rather a
slow oven until it shrinks from sides of pan. When
cool spread the following filling between the two layers
and on top:
CHOCOLATE CUSTARD FILLING
2 eggs
1 7/8 cupfuls milk
1/2 cupful flour
2 squares unsweetened
1 cupful sugar
chocolate, melted
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
Beat eggs slightly and stir in sugar, flour, salt
and then the oil. Bring milk to a boil in double boiler,
and when boiling stir this in. Add melted chocolate
46
and stir and cook until thick. Remove from fire and
beat very smooth. When partially cool, add vanilla
and spread on cake.
PINEAPPLE FRITTERS
RECIPE NO. 100
1/2 cupful flour
1 beaten egg
1/2 teaspoonful baking powder
Sliced canned pineapple
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/4 cupful pineapple juice
2 tablespoonfuls granulated
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
sugar
Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and
salt; add the slightly beaten egg, then the pineapple
juice. Beat to a smooth batter. Dip into the batter
slices of canned pineapple and drop gently into deep,
hot VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL, and fry to a golden
brown. Drain on brown paper; roll in powdered sugar
and serve hot.
LEMON CAKE FILLING
RECIPE NO. 101
3 beaten egg yolks
1/2 cupful cold water
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
2 slightly rounding table-
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
spoonfuls corn starch
1 cupful sugar
Juice and rind of 1 large or
1 1/2 small lemons
Mix the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL with the
beaten egg yolks; add the sugar, juice and rind of
lemon and half of the water. Let come to a boil, then
stir in the cornstarch thoroughly dissolved in the other
half of the water. Cook until thick, stirring almost
constantly. When cool, spread.
CHOCOLATE CAKE FILLING
RECIPE NO. 102
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 cupful sugar
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
3 egg yolks
1 1/2 squares unsweetened
1/2 cupful milk
chocolate
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla
Put the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil and choco-
47
late in a skillet and stir until chocolate is melted. Set
aside from fire. Beat the egg yolks, add the milk and
sugar and mix thoroughly; then pour gradually into
the melted chocolate and oil. Return to fire and cook,
stirring constantly, until very thick. When cool,
spread between and on top of cake.
LEMON PIE FILLING
RECIPE NO. 103
(Sufficient for 1 pie)
1/4 cupful unsifted flour
1 1/2 large or 2 small lemons
2 tablespoonfuls corn starch
1 cupful cold water
3/4 cupful sugar
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 teaspoonful salt
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2 eggs
Mix thoroughly the sugar, flour, cornstarch, salt
and the grated rind of the lemons. Add the yolks of
the eggs well beaten, stirring in thoroughly; then the
lemon juice. Mix well, then add the water and
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Cook until thick, in
the top of a double boiler, stirring frequently. When
cold, spread in a pie shell which has been previously
baked and cooled. Beat the whites of the eggs to a
stiff froth, add to them two tablespoonfuls of sugar
and spread irregularly over the top. Set in a hot
oven or under the gas flame to brown, watching closely
so it will not scorch.
of
48
Pudding and Pudding Sauces
CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE
RECIPE NO. 104
1/2 cupful sugar
1 square unsweetened
1/4 cupful flour
chocolate, melted
1 egg slightly beaten
1 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
Mix sugar and flour. Stir in the egg, then the
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Melt chocolate and
add; then the milk. Cook in double boiler until thick,
stirring almost constantly. Serve either hot or cold
with sugar and cream.
LEMON PUDDING
RECIPE NO. 105
1 cupful fine dry bread
1 beaten egg
crumbs
1/2 cupful sugar
Grated rind of 1 lemon
1 pint milk
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Mix and bake slowly for about 40 minutes. Serve
with Lemon Pudding Sauce, Recipe No. 109.
PEACH PUDDING WITH WHIPPED
CREAM
RECIPE NO. 106
2 cupfuls peaches (mashed)
4 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
and juice
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
3/4 cupfuls sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls flour (level)
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/2 cupful cold water
Grated rind of 1/2 lemon
2 egg yolks
1/2 pint heavy cream, whipped
Mix sugar, flour and salt and add slightly beaten
egg yolks. Mix thoroughly, then add VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL, then the water and peaches. Cook,
49
stirring constantly until very thick. When very cold
fold in half of the whipped cream, using other half
on top.
ORANGE CUSTARD
RECIPE NO. 107
(Will serve six)
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
4 eggs slightly beaten
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Grated rind of 4 oranges
OLIVE OIL
1 cupful orange juice
1/4 cupful flour (unsifted)
Juice of 1 lemon
Sliced oranges
Mix together the sugar, flour, salt and orange
rind; add the eggs, then the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE
OIL and orange juice. Cook until very thick, stirring
constantly. Serve very cold, poured over sliced
oranges.
LEMON BUTTER (Very Fine)
RECIPE NO. 108
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
4 lemons, juice and grated
OLIVE OIL
rind
1 1/2 cupfuls sugar
1 rounding tablespoonful
5 well beaten eggs
butter
Beat the eggs without separating. Mix all to-
gether with exception of the butter and cook in double
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Just before
removing from the fire, add butter.
To be served cold, either on tarts or as a jelly.
Excellent to spread on bread for children.
Those who do not care for the flavor of oil, can
obtain the nourishment without the flavor in this
Lemon Butter, as the flavor of the oil is not noticeable.
50
LEMON PUDDING SAUCE (Excellent)
RECIPE NO. 109
2 tablespoonfuls corn starch
Grated rind and juice of 1
1 cupful sugar
lemon
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 egg yolk slightly beaten
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
1 cupful cold water
Mix together the cornstarch, sugar, salt and
lemon rind. Add the slightly beaten egg and mix
thoroughly. Then add the lemon juice and oil. Stir
well and add the water. Boil, stirring constantly, until
it thickens.
of
of
51
Pickles and Relishes
INDIA RELISH
RECIPE NO. 120
2 large or 3 small heads
1 dozen large onions
cabbage
8 green Bell peppers
8 pounds green tomatoes
6 red Bell peppers
2 pounds ripe tomatoes
Chop all fine. Sprinkle well with salt and let
stand over night. In the morning drain and put on
the stove with 3 pounds of brown sugar and enough
cider vinegar to cover. Boil slowly one hour; then
add 1 cupful horseradish mixed with 1 cupful VIT-
TUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Pack in stone crocks or
glass jars and cover.
CAULIFLOWER PICKLES OR
CHOW CHOW
RECIPE NO. 121
3 large heads cauliflower
1 cupful flour
2 pounds string beans
1/4 pound box dry mustard
2 quarts small onions
2 green peppers
5 quarts vinegar
1/2 teaspoonful cayenne
1 quart VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/2 ounce tumeric
OLIVE Oil
1/2 cup black pepper
5 cupfuls sugar
Salt to taste
5 eggs
Five heads cauliflower may be used, omitting the
string beans if preferred.
Boil the cauliflower and beans separately in boil-
ing water until tender, after first separating the flow-
erettes and cutting the beans in thirds. Mix together
the dry ingredients, beat the eggs and add, then stir
in the Olive Oil. Add the vinegar and boil until it
thickens and is smooth, stirring constantly. Drain
the water from the cauliflower and beans and add
with the chopped peppers and boil five minutes longer.
Pour into sterilized crocks or jars and cover.
55
BEET RELISH
RECIPE NO. 122
1 quart raw cabbage chopped
1 tablespoonful or more salt
fine
1 teaspoonful pepper
1 quart boiled beets chopped
1 cupful grated horseradish
fine
Mix together and cover with cold vinegar and
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil in the proportion of 1/4
of the oil to 3/4 vinegar.
MUSTARD PICKLES
RECIPE NO. 123
1 quart small cucumbers
6 large cucumbers peeled
1 quart small onions
and sliced
2 large cauliflower
1 red pepper
1 quart celery
2 green peppers
1 1/2 quarts string beans
Separate the flowerettes of the cauliflower,
cut the celery into 1/2 inch lengths, string the beans
and cut into thirds and chop the peppers coarsely.
Mix all together, cover with salted water (1 cupful
of salt to 1 gallon cold water), let stand 24 hours,
then scald. Drain off the water and pack the pickles
into jars or crocks and pour over them the following
paste:
1 1/2 cupfuls VITTUCCI VIRGIN
3 tablespoonfuls celery seed
OLIVE OIL
2 cupfuls granulated sugar
3 quarts cider vinegar
1 1/4 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful dry mustard
Additional salt to taste
2 tablespoonfuls tumeric
Mix the dry ingredients; stir in the oil, then the
vinegar. Boil, stirring constantly until it thickens.
PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS
RECIPE NO. 124
As seeds are gathered, wash and drain and put
into enough cold vinegar (to which should be added
1 teaspoonful salt to each pint of vinegar) to well
cover. Add seeds as gathered from time to time.
56
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
21
CHICKEN MUSHROOM SOUP
th
MOR GUE GUY TONG
3 cups Chinese mushrooms chopped into
small dice
3/4 cup chicken chopped to same size
9 cups primary soup
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
1 teaspoonful Chinese sauce
1/2 teaspoonful oil
Salt, and a few drops of sesamum-seed oil
Chinese mushrooms can be secured at any
Chinese grocery store.
(a) Cook the mushrooms for 1/2 hour, and
then drain off and put into the primary soup.
Boil for 15 minutes.
(b) Add the chopped chicken; the eggs well
beaten; and all the other ingredients. Take
off the stove 1/2 minute after the cornstarch
is added.
Serve in bowls. Garnish the top of each
bowl with 1 teaspoonful of Chinese ham cut
into dice.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
23
DUCK SOUP
ARP TONG
1 medium-sized duck without bones
1 1/2 cups Chinese mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
4 cups celery
2 teaspoonfuls oil
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
1 teaspoonful Chinese sauce
1/4 teaspoonful cornstarch
Salt
(a) Chop all into dice.
(b) Heat the cooking pan for 1/2 minute.
Then grease it thoroughly with oil.
(c) Add salt and all other ingredients ex-
cept duck. Keep turning for about 5 minutes.
(d) Add primary soup and boil very slowly.
(e) Mix together well the duck (cut into
dice), the oil, sesamum-seed oil, Chinese sauce,
and cornstarch.
(f) When primary soup has boiled 1/2 hour,
add the duck mixture. Boil slowly for another
1/2 hour.
For a garnish, use Chinese ham dice.
24
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PORK SOUP
GUE YORK TONG
2 cups lean pork cut into fragments
2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch
2 teaspoonfuls Chinese sauce
5 cups primary soup
2 cups Chinese mushrooms
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
3 cups star melon cut into small pieces after
the rind is removed
Salt
(a) Mix the pork, cornstarch, Chinese
sauce, and salt.
(b) Bring the primary soup to a boil. Then
add the pork mixture and the mushrooms, and
cook for 1/2 hour.
(c) Ten minutes before taking soup off
stove, add the melon.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
25
FISH SOUP
YUE TONG
1 five-pound fish
5 pints primary soup
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups bamboo shoots
1 cup Chinese mushrooms
(a) Dress the fish and cook until soft. Take
out bones. Tear the meat to pieces (1 1/2 inches
long).
(b) Cut the secondary vegetables into dice.
Cook for 20 minutes.
(c) Put the vegetables and the fish into the
primary soup, and cook for 15 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy. Stir the soup well
and take from the stove. Serve in bowls.
Garnish each bowl.
26
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
NOODLE SOUP
-
YAT KOI MIN
3 pounds noodles
2 teaspoonfuls Chinese sauce
1 teaspoonful oil
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
Noodles are made of flour, eggs, salt, and a
small portion of alkaline solution.
Inasmuch as good noodles require very skil-
ful labor to make them, and they can be ob-
tained much cheaper in a Chinese noodle fac-
tory than if made at home, the author does not
describe the process.
The best quality contains no water.
To make yat koi min (noodle soup) proceed
as follows:
(a) Put the noodles into boiling water, and
boil until they float on the surface.
(b) Quickly place in cold water and stir.
(c) Put again into boiling water for 1 min-
ute.
(d) Put into a clean bowl containing the
28
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
NOODLE SOUP WITH CHICKEN
AND MUSHROOMS
BIL -
MOR GÜE GUY YAT KOI MIN
3 pounds noodles
2 teaspoonfuls Chinese sauce
1 teaspoonful oil
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
1 cup chicken
1 1/2 cups mushrooms
1 1/2 cups water chestnuts
(a) Put the noodles into boiling water, and
boil until they float on the surface.
(b) Quickly place in cold water and stir.
(c) Put again into boiling water for 1 min-
ute.
(d) Put into a clean bowl containing the oil,
sesamum-seed oil, Chinese sauce, and a little
pepper.
(e) Cut the chicken, mushrooms, and water
chestnuts into pieces 1 1/2 inches long. Cook
until done. Mix together and add Chinese
gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
31
FRIED NOODLES
CHOW MIN
2 pounds Chinese noodles
1 1/2 cups onions cut into threads
1 cup raw pork cut into threads 1 1/2 inches
long
3/4 cup roast pork cut into threads
1 egg fried and cut into threads 1 1/2 inches
lc.g
2 tablespoonfuls lard
1 tablespoonful Chinese sauce
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
3 cups primary soup
Get the noodles from a Chinese noodle store.
There are two kinds, so in ordering state that
you want noodles for Chow Min.
Egg threads are made by beating an egg
well, pouring it into a hot oiled pan, then let-
ting it run all over the surface of the pan, form-
ing a thin layer of yellow egg about one-sixty-
fourth inch thick.
To make Chow Min, proceed as follows:
(a) Put the lard on the noodles, and steam
for 1/2 hour.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
33
CHICKEN FRIED NOODLES
to
GUY CHOW MIN
1 cup onions cut into threads
2 cupfuls chicken cut into threads 1 1/2 inches
long
1 egg, fried and cut into threads
1 cup Chinese mushrooms
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
1 tablespoonful Chinese sauce
3 cups primary soup
2 tablespoonfuls lard
(a) Put the lard on the noodles, and steam
for 1/2 hour.
(b) After the noodles have been steamed,
they tend to stay together; therefore they
should be loosened up with a fork.
(c) Place the steamed noodles in a pan of
boiling oil and fry until nicely brown. Then
put on a dish.
(d) Cook the onion and chicken until done.
(e) Make a gravy of the primary soup,
cornstarch (first dissolved in water), Chinese
THE CHINESE cook BOOK
35
ALMOND CHICKEN
1 IT
HUNG YUEN GUY DING
2 cups almonds
2 cups onions cut into dice
2 cups water chestnuts cut into dice
2 cups mushrooms cut into dice
1 cup celery cut into dice
1 pound chicken, without bones
(a) Skin the almonds by putting in boil-
ing water. Fry in boiling oil until they turn
yellow.
(b) Put the water chestnuts, onions, mush-
rooms, and celery in a hot cooking pan con-
taining some oil, and fry rapidly. Keep them
moving, so that each particle receives the same
amount of heat. Add water enough to cover
and boil for 15 minutes.
(c) Put the chicken in a hot oiled pan and
fry for 2 minutes. Add enough primary soup
to cover, and cook, with the cover on, for 10
minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy. Take from the
stove at once.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
37
CHICKEN CHOP SUEY
A
chow GUY PIN
1 chicken cut into fragments
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups celery cut into thin pieces
This dish is not known in China. From the
name it means simply a variety of small pieces.
However, the principles of Chinese cooking
are the same.
(a) Put the water chestnuts, mushrooms,
bamboo shoots, and celery into a hot pan con-
taining oil. Fry for 2 minutes. Add water
and cook for 15 minutes.
(b) Put the chicken in a frying-pan con-
taining oil and fry for 5 minutes.
(c) Add the secondary vegetables and mix
well.
(d) Add enough primary soup to cover,
and cook for 5 minutes.
(e) Add Chinese gravy and stir. Remove
from the stove at once.
38
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHESTNUT CHICKEN
7 m
LUT GE GUY
1 cup chicken
2 cups chestnuts
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Cut the chicken into pieces 3/4 inch by
1 1/2 inches. Cut the chestnuts, water chest-
nuts, and mushrooms into big pieces.
(b) Rub salt and a little Chinese sauce on
the chicken. Then put into a pot of boiling
oil until the color becomes yellow.
(c) Now put into primary soup and boil
until nearly soft.
(d) Add the secondary vegetables and cook
until done.
No gravy is necessary with Lut Ge Guy.
Serve hot and add parsley for garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
39
CHICKEN HASH
GUY SUNG
1 chicken cut into very small pieces
2 cups each of water chestnuts, mushrooms,
and bamboo shoots, chopped fine
1/2 teaspoonful of ginger juice
1/2 teaspoonful of Fun Wine
1 head of lettuce cut into threads
1 tablespoonful of Chinese ham cut into dice
1 handful of fried noodles
(a) Fry the chopped chicken in a hot, oiled
pan.
(b) Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then the chopped water chestnuts, mushrooms,
and bamboo shoots. Mix well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook until done.
(d) Add Chinese gravy and remove from
the stove at once.
(e) Salt to suit the taste.
Serve on top of lettuce. Use the Chinese
ham dice and the fried noodles as a garnish.
40
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHICKEN THREAD
GUY SUE
1 chicken cut into threads
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups Chinese mushrooms
(a) Cook the bamboo shoots and mush-
rooms for 20 minutes. Then mix with the
chicken.
(b) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook for 5 minutes.
(c) Add Chinese gravy and remove from
the stove at once.
42
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
WALNUT CHICKEN
IT
HOP TOO GUY DING
3 cups English walnuts
2 cups onions cut into dice
2 cups water chestnuts cut into dice
1 1/2 cups celery cut into dice
1 pound of chicken without bones
(a) Remove the skins from the walnuts by
placing them in boiling water. Then fry them
in boiling oil until they turn yellow.
(b) Put the secondary vegetables in a hot
cooking-pan containing oil and fry for 2 or 3
minutes. Keep them moving so that each
particle receives the same amount of heat.
Add enough primary soup to cover and boil
for 15 minutes.
(c) Put the chicken in a hot, oiled pan and
fry for 2 minutes.
(d) Add the vegetables.
(e) Add Chinese gravy and remove from
the stove.
Place on a dish and garnish with the fried
walnuts.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
43
PINEAPPLE CHICKEN
BII
BOR LOR GUY
1 chicken
1 can pineapple
2 cups green peppers
2 cups celery
1 cup canned sour ginger
1/2 cup vinegar
1/4 cup Fun Wine
2 eggs
(a) Cut the chicken, pineapple, peppers,
celery, and ginger into pieces 1 1/2 inches long.
(b) Break the eggs into the chicken and
mix well together with a little cornstarch and
salt. Then put into boiling oil and fry until
all becomes yellow.
(c) Put the pineapple, pepper, celery, and
ginger into a hot, oiled pan and fry for 2 min-
utes. Add the fried chicken. Mix well and
add the Fun Wine. Cook over a hot fire for
5 minutes; then add enough primary soup to
cover and cook until about one cup of liquid
is left.
46
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PAN CHICKEN
BE
WATT GUY
1 cup lily flower
1 cup fungus
2 cups dry mushrooms
1 chicken
A small piece of ginger root, without the skin
1/4 cup of Fun Wine
(a) Soak the lily flower, fungus, and the
mushrooms in cold water for 1/2 hour.
(b) Wash the chicken inside and outside
with Chinese sauce. Put in a pan with oil
and fry for 10 minutes. Add the Fun Wine
and salt. Add 2 cups of water.
(c) Now put all into a small pot and add
the lily flower, fungus, mushrooms, and gin-
ger. Keep cover on tight and cook for 1/2 hour
over a slow fire.
This is the most delicious chicken ever
known.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
47
BIRD-NEST IN CHICKEN
FONG TUNG YUEN
1 1/2 cups bird-nest
1 large whole chicken (at least 7 pounds)
1 bowl primary soup
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
(a) Soak the bird-nest in cold water for 1
hour. Then wash gently and cook for 1 hour
with a piece of ginger.
(b) Pick the chicken, chop off the head,
feet and wings, cut 1 line 4 inches long and
take out the interior. Clean the chicken and
rub inside and outside with salt. Place in a
bowl with the cut side on top.
(c) Fill the chicken with the bird-nest and
the primary soup. Steam for 3 hours in a
double-boiler.
(d) Now transfer into a second bowl by us-
ing a bowl a little larger than the first bowl and
putting this second bowl on top of the first
bowl mouth to mouth.
Garnish with the Chinese ham dice.
48
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
STEAMED CHICKEN
BIL
GING GUY
1 chicken cut into pieces about 1 1/2 inches
long
2 cups mushrooms
A few slices of ginger root
4 pieces of red dates
1 Chinese onion
Cornstarch, sauce, salt, and oil
(a) Mix well the chicken, oil, salt, corn-
starch, and sauce.
(b) Add mushrooms, ginger root, and red
dates. Put on a plate and steam for 1/2 hour.
(c) Add Chinese onion cut into threads 1 1/2
inches long.
Garnish with parsley. Serve with mustard,
sauce, and oil.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
49
ROAST CHICKEN
SUE GUY
2 chickens (about 4 pounds each)
2 teaspoonfuls spicery powder
2 cups Chinese sauce
A few drops of sesamum-seed oil
2 teaspoonfuls salt
(a) Put the chickens in hot, not boiling,
water for 2 minutes and then add the spicery
powder, sauce, oil, and salt. Leave the chick-
ens in for 20 minutes. Be sure every bit of
chicken is dipped into it.
(b) Place the chickens as shown in the dia-
gram, having first started the fire, that the wall
is hot. Roast for 1 hour.
A hot fire is necessary before the chickens
are put into the stove; after the chickens are in,
the fire must be kept low. There must be no
smoke.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
51
ROAST DUCK
SUE ARP
2 ducks (about 4 pounds each)
2 teaspoonfuls spicery powder
2 cups Chinese sauce
A few drops of sesamum-seed oil
2 teaspoonfuls salt
(a) Put the ducks in hot, not boiling, water
for 2 minutes and then add the spicery powder,
sauce, oil, and salt. Leave the ducks in for
20 minutes. Be sure every bit of duck is
dipped into it.
(b) Place the ducks as shown in the dia-
gram, having first started the fire, that the
wall is hot. Roast for 1 hour.
A hot fire is necessary before the ducks are
put into the stove; after the ducks are in, the
first must be kept low. There must be no
smoke.
52
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PARSLEY DUCK
T4
SI wo ARP
2 ducks
2 cups mushrooms
2 small pieces ginger root, mashed
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
Parsley enough to cover the dish 1 inch thick
(a) Open the ducks with one 4-inch cut in
the back of each. Take out the interior. Wash
thoroughly and dry. Now wash the ducks in-
side and out with sweet sauce.
(b) Cook the duck in a pan of boiling oil
until yellow.
(c) Put the duck into a frying-pan. Cover
with the mushrooms, ginger, and Fun Wine.
Add 1/3 more than enough primary soup to
cover all. Cook until the duck is done.
When done, there must be 3 cups of liquid
left. Therefore, the amount of primary soup
used depends on the age and size of the duck,
because the older the duck the longer it takes
to cook.
(d) Make a gravy of the liquid left, with
54
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
DUCK HASH
ARP SUNG
1 duck chopped into pieces as small as pos-
sible
2 cups water chestnuts chopped fine
2 cups mushrooms chopped fine
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
1 head of lettuce cut into threads
2 cups fried noodles
(a) Fry the chopped duck in a hot, oiled
pan. Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then add the chopped water chestnuts, mush-
rooms, and bamboo shoots. Mix well. Add
enough primary soup to cover and cook until
done.
(b) Add Chinese gravy, and salt to suit
the taste. Serve on top of lettuce. Use the
Chinese ham dice and the fried noodles as a
garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
55
DUCK CHOP SUEY
HÉ A
chow ARP PIN
1 chicken
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups celery
2 cups primary soup
(a) Cut the chicken and all of the vege-
tables into small pieces.
(b) Put the secondary vegetables into a
hot pan containing oil. Fry for 2 minutes.
Add water and cook for 15 minutes.
(c) Place the duck fragments in a hot, oiled
pan and fry for 5 minutes.
(d) Add the secondary vegetables and mix
well.
(e) Add the primary soup and cook for 5
more minutes.
(f) Add Chinese gravy. Mix well and
serve at once.
56
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
POTATO DUCK
KI It
SU JAI ARP
1 duck (about 7 pounds)
The same amount of skinned potatoes
A cake of Chinese red cheese
1 small piece of ginger, pounded
1/4 cup Fun Wine
A piece of green carrot
(a) Put the duck into an oiled frying-pan
and fry until brown. Turn frequently, so
that every part of the duck receives the same
amount of heat.
(b) Add the ginger and Fun Wine and fry
for 2 minutes. Take out and put into a bowl.
The liquid left in the frying-pan is to be put
into a separate bowl.
(c) Add 2 cups of water to the cheese and
mash. Rub this well into the duck, inside and
outside.
(d) Put the potatoes into the cooking-pan.
Place the duck on top. Add enough water to
cover all. Over this pour any cheese liquid
which remains. Add the carrot.
(e) Cover the pan and cook until tender.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
57
WINE VAPOR DUCK
1111 the
SUN SIN ARP
2 ducks (about 4 pounds each)
2 cups, 3/4 full, of any wine
1 teaspoonful spicery salt
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham
(a) Open the ducks with one cut about 4
inches long in the back of each.
(b) When the ducks have been cleaned,
place them in a suitable bowl with the back
upward.
(c) Rub the duck inside and out with spic-
ery salt.
(d) Place carefully in each duck one of the
cups of wine. Be sure the wine does not spill
on the duck.
(e) Steam in a double-boiler for 2 1/2 hours,
or until tender.
(f) Remove cover. Pour in cold water to
stop the steam. By means of a cloth take out
the cups of wine.
(g) Pour off the gravy into another bowl.
Skim off the oil.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
59
STEAMED DUCK
DON JUN ARP
1 duck (about 8 pounds)
2 cups chestnuts without skins
1 cup barley
1/2 cup white nuts without skins
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
(a) Soak the chestnuts and barley in cold
water for 1 hour.
(b) Open the back of the duck with one
cut about 4 inches long. Take out the bones
without tearing the meat.
(c) When the duck has been cleaned wash
it inside and out with Chinese sauce. Salt
thoroughly and put into a hot, oiled pan and
fry for 10 minutes.
(d) Add the Fun Wine. Turn the duck
frequently.
(e) Now put the duck, with the open side
upward, in a bowl a little larger than the duck.
Fill with the chestnuts, barley, and white nuts
and any juice left in the frying-pan.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
61
EAST MELON DUCK
DUNG QUAR ARP
1 boneless duck cut into small dice
1 east melon (8 inches in diameter)
1 handful skinned water chestnuts cut into
small dice
1 handful lotus nuts
1 handful mushrooms cut into small dice
1 small piece of ginger without the skin,
pounded
1 teaspoonful Fun Wine
(a) Cut off the top of the melon as shown in
the picture. Take out the seeds.
(b) Oil the cooking-pan and heat.
(c) Fry the duck for 10 minutes.
(d) Add the ginger and Fun Wine. Salt.
Fry for 1 minute more. Turn frequently.
(e) Add chestnuts, lotus nuts, mushrooms,
and enough primary soup to fill the melon.
Cook until the soup boils.
(f) Transfer all into the melon. Cover
with the piece you cut from the melon. Steam
for about 3 1/2 hours; the size of melon decides
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
65
PINEAPPLE DUCK
BOR LOR ARP
1 duck
1 can of pineapple
2 cups green peppers
2 cups celery
4 pieces of canned sour ginger
1/4 cup Fun Wine
2 eggs
(a) Cut into small oblong pieces the duck,
pineapple, peppers, celery, and ginger.
(b) Break the eggs into the duck and mix
well together with a little cornstarch and salt.
(c) Put the pineapple, pepper, celery, and
ginger into a hot, oiled pan and fry for 2
minutes.
(d) Add the fried duck. Mix well and add
the Fun Wine. Have a hot fire. After 5
minutes add enough primary soup to cover
the substances and cook until about one cup
of liquid is left.
(e) Add the vinegar and sugar and mix
with Chinese gravy.
66
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
DUCK THREADS
ARP SUE
1 duck
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups mushrooms
3 cups primary soup
(a) Cook the duck until tender and tear
off the meat into shreds.
(b) Cook the bamboo shoots and mush-
rooms for 20 minutes. Then mix with the
duck.
(c) Add the primary soup and cook a while
longer.
(d) Add Chinese gravy, mix well, and
serve.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
67
ROAST DUCK BISCUITS
SUE ARP BOW
1 duck
2 pounds flour
1/2 cup lard
1 tablespoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls baking powder
(a) Roast the duck, take out the bones,
and cut the meat into small pieces.
(b) Sift the flour and put into a suitable
bowl. Mix the flour with enough cold water
to make a thin dough.
(c) Roll the dough out flat and cut into
the size of biscuits.
(d) Now roll the biscuits flat and fill them
with the duck meat, wrapping the dough
around the meat into a perfect ball. Close it
up carefully. The amount of duck should be
one-half the amount of dough.
(e) Place in a double-boiler for 10 minutes
before putting over the fire. Steam for 3/4
of an hour.
68
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
WILD DUCK
YAR ARP
1 duck
2 cups chestnuts without skins
2 cups water chestnuts
1 cup chopped pork
1 cup barley
1/2 cup white nuts without skins
(a) Soak the chestnuts and the barley in
cold water for 1 hour.
(b) Open the back of the duck with one cut
about 4 inches long. Take out the bones with-
out tearing the meat.
(c) Wash the duck inside and out with
Chinese sauce. Salt thoroughly and put into
an oiled pan and fry for 10 minutes. Add
the Fun Wine. Turn the duck frequently.
Take from the stove and put into a bowl a
little larger than the duck.
(d) Fill the duck with the chestnuts, barley,
nuts and any juice left in the frying-pan.
Steam for 2 1/2 hours.
(e) Get a bowl larger than the one holding
72
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
LAMB HASH
**
#
MIN YUNG SUNG
2 pounds of lamb
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
1 head lettuce cut into threads
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham cut into dice
1 cup fried noodles
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
The lamb, water chestnuts, mushrooms, and
bamboo shoots are to be chopped as fine as
possible.
(a) Fry the chopped lamb in a hot, oiled
pan.
(b) Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then add the chopped water chestnuts, mush-
rooms, and bamboo shoots. Mix well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook until done. Serve on top of the lettuce
threads.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
73
STEAMED LAMB
#
DON MIN YUNG
2 pounds of lamb cut into pieces 3/4 inch by
1 1/2 inches by 3/4 inch
2 cups dry mushrooms
2 cups unskinned chestnuts
3 red dates
1 cup Fun Wine
(a) Use water to boil the lamb for 10 min-
utes.
(b) Take out the lamb and dip into a bowl
of salt and sweet sauce (Chinese name Chew
Yout).
(c) Put all into a suitable bowl. Add
enough primary soup to cover and add the
chestnuts, red dates, and Fun Wine. Steam
until tender.
(d) Remove any oil from the liquid, and
serve.
74
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
LAMB CHOP SUEY
#
chow MIN YUNG
1 1/2 pounds lamb
25 threads skinless ginger root
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups dry mushrooms
1 cup fried noodles
(a) Cut all the ingredients except the noo-
dles into threads 1 1/2 inches long.
(b) Fry the ginger root, bamboo shoots,
and mushrooms in a hot, oiled pan for 10
minutes.
(c) Add the lamb. Mix well. Cook for 5
more minutes.
(d) Add one bowl of primary soup and
cook until 1 cup of liquid is left.
(e) Add Chinese gravy.
Use the fried noodles for a garnish. Serve
when hot.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
75
PLAIN CHOP SUEY.
HE
FARN CHOP
2 pounds pork
2 pounds bean sprouts
2 cups onion threads
(a) Cut the pork into pieces 1/16 inch by 1/2
inch by 1 inch.
(b) Put the pork, bean sprouts, and onions
into an oiled pan and fry for 10 minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover and cook
for 15 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
76
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
EXTRA CHOP SUEY
tio **
GAR LEW CHOP
2 pounds pork cut into pieces 1/16 inch by
1/2 inch by 1 inch
Bean sprouts equal to amount of pork
2 cups onions cut into threads
2 cups bamboo shoots cut into pieces same
size as pork
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Put the pork, bean sprouts, onions,
bamboo shoots and mushrooms into an oiled
pan and fry for 10 minutes.
(b) Add water enough to cover and cook
for 15 minutes.
(c) Add Chinese gravy.
Remove from the stove and serve at once.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
77
PORK HASH
the K
GE YORK SUNG
1 1/2 pounds pork
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
1 teaspoonful Fun Wine
1 head lettuce cut into threads
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham cut into dice
1 cup fried noodles
The pork, water chestnuts, mushrooms, and
bamboo shoots are to be chopped as fine as
possible.
(a) Fry the chopped pork in a hot, oiled
pan.
(b) Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then add the chopped water chestnuts, mush-
rooms, and bamboo shoots. Mix well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook until done. Serve on top of the lettuce
threads.
78
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PORK THREADS
K
**
GE YORK SE
1 1/2 pounds pork
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups mushrooms
3 cups primary soup
(a) Cook the pork until tender and tear off
the meat into threads.
(b) Cook the bamboo shoots and mush-
rooms for 20 minutes. Then mix with the
pork.
(c) Add the primary soup and cook again.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
79
POTATO PORK
K
SE JI GE YORK
Pork (2 pounds)
4 pounds skinned potatoes
1 small piece ginger, pounded
1 cake Chinese red cheese
1/2 cup Fun Wine
1 piece green carrot
(a) Oil the frying-pan. Put in the pork.
Fry until brown. Turn frequently so that
every part of the pork receives the same
amount of heat.
(b) Add the ginger and the wine and fry
for 2 minutes.
(c) Take out and put into a bowl. Put the
juice left in the frying-pan into a separate
bowl.
(d) Add 2 cups of water to the red cheese
and mash.
(e) Put the potatoes into a cooking-pan.
Add the carrot. Place the pork on top. Add
enough water to cover. Pour over this the
juice and the cheese.
(f) Cover the pan and cook for 1 1/2 hours.
80
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
BRITTLE PORK
KE K
so JOU GE YORK
3 pounds pork cut into pieces 3/4 inch by 1 1/2
inches by 1/4 inch
A few pieces of Octogon spicery
2 tablespoonfuls Fun Wine
1 egg
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
(a) Boil the pork and spicery in plain water
for 10 minutes. Let cool.
(b) Break the egg. Mix with the corn-
starch. Then mix with the pork.
(c) Fry in boiling oil until it gets red.
(d) Put the fried pork into cold water and
change water several times until no oil floats
on the surface.
(e) Dry the pork and place in a bowl.
(f) Add the Fun Wine, and steam for 2
hours.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
81
STEAMED CHESTNUT PORK
#7 the HE KS
LUT GE DONG GE YORK
2 1/2 pounds pork cut into pieces 1 inch by 3/4
inch by 1 1/2 inches
2 cups skinless chestnuts
1 cup Fun Wine
(a) Dip the pork into sweet sauce and fry
in boiling oil until red.
(b) Take out the pork and place in cold
water. Change water until no oil is on top of
the water.
(c) Dry fried pork and place in a bowl.
(d) Add the chestnuts and the Fun Wine.
Steam for 1 3/4 hours.
82
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PORK SALAD
it
1 1/11 K
LANG BONG GE YORK
2 1/2 pounds pork (uncut)
2 1/2 pounds string beans cut 2 inches long
1/2 cup mustard
1 cup vinegar
(a) Boil the pork until done and place in
cold water. Punch several small holes with a
large needle. Gently squeeze the oil out of it.
Change water until no oil is on the top.
(b) Cut the pork into thin pieces 1/32 inch
by 3/4 inch by 1 1/2 inches. Mix with salt to suit
the taste, and with the mustard and vinegar.
(c) Boil the string beans for 10 minutes.
Put into a bowl, and add salt and enough vine-
gar to cover.
(d) Cover and keep air tight for 2 hours.
(e) Place the pork on top of the string
beans and serve.
Use parsley and sage cut into threads for a
garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
83
FRIED PIGS' RIBS
#
chow PAI QUIT
4 pounds pigs' ribs
1 cup vinegar
2 teaspoonfuls sugar
1 cup Fun Wine
2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch
1 teaspoonful Chinese sauce
1 egg
(a) Cut the ribs into pieces 3/4 inch by 3/4
inch by 1 1/2 inches, and mix well with the egg,
Chinese sauce, salt, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch
and 1 teaspoonful sugar. Fry in boiling oil
until brown.
(b) Add to the mixture the vinegar, Fun
Wine, 2 cups of water, and the remaining su-
gar and cornstarch. Cook until nearly dry.
84
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
BEEF CHOP SUEY
4 K A
chow OUT YORK PIN
/4 pound beef
4 cups celery cut into pieces 1/2 inch long
2 cups bean sprouts
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
A few pieces sesamum-seed oil
A few threads ginger root
(a) Cut the beef into pieces 1/32 inch by
3/4 inch by 1 1/2 inches. Mix thoroughly with
the cornstarch, sesamum-seed oil, Fun Wine,
and a little salt and Chinese sauce.
(b) Put the celery and bean sprouts into a
hot, oiled pan and fry for 5 minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover. Spread
the beef on top. Cover tightly and cook until
nearly dry.
(d) Add Chinese gravy and mix well.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
85
GREEN PEPPER BEEF
4
LAR GUE OUT
2 pounds beef
2 cups green peppers cut into pieces 1 inch
by 1 inch
1 cup celery, chopped
1 cup bean sprouts
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
A few pieces sesamum-seed oil
A few threads ginger root
(a) Cut the beef into pieces 1/32 inch by
3/4 inch by 1 1/2 inches. Mix with the corn-
starch oil, sesamum-seed oil, and Chinese
sauce.
(b) Put the celery, bean sprouts, and green
peppers into a hot, oiled pan and fry for 5
minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover. Spread
the beef on top. Cover tightly and cook until
nearly dry.
(d) Add Chinese gravy and mix well.
86
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FISH CHOP SUEY
H
chow YUE PIN
5 pounds pike not less than 2 1/2 inches in
diameter. Take out bones and cut into
thin fragments
2 cups mushrooms
A few pieces of ginger cut into pieces 1/32
inch by 3/4 inch by 1 inch
2 cups bamboo shoots cut into pieces 3/4 by
1 1/2 inches by 1/32 inch.
2 cups bean sprouts
(a) Remove the skin from the pike and
take out the bones. Cut into pieces 1/16 inch
thick.
(b) Fry the mushrooms, ginger, bamboo
shoots, and bean sprouts in a hot, oiled pan for
5 minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover all. Cook
for 15 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
(e) Add the pike and mix well.
Garnish with parsley, and serve hot.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
87
FISH BALLS
*
YUE YUN
6 pounds pike
1 1/2 cups salted almonds or peanuts
1/2 cup Chinese ham
6 pounds vegetables in season
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
(a) Remove the skin from the pike and take
out the bones. Run through the grinder three
times.
(b) Cut into small pieces the almonds, ham,
and the vegetables.
(c) Put the pike into a big bowl and mix
with it the cornstarch, 1 cup of
water and 1 teaspoonful salt.
Stir well for an hour. Be sure
to stir in the same direction all
the time.
(d) Add the nuts and ham.
Mix well.
(e) Wash your hands as clean as possible.
Hold the mixture in your hand and squeeze
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
89
FRIED FISH BALLS
# III *L
GUR YUE YUN
6 pounds pike
1 1/2 cups salted almonds or peanuts
1/2 cup Chinese ham
6 pounds vegetables in season
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Remove the skin from the pike and take
out the bones. Run through the grinder three
times.
(b) Cut into small pieces the almonds, ham,
and the vegetables.
(c) Put the pike into a big bowl and mix
with it the cornstarch, 1 cup of water and 1
teaspoonful salt. Stir well for an hour. Be
sure to stir in the same direction all the
time.
(d) Add the nuts and ham. Mix well.
(e) Make the fish balls as described on the
preceding page. Add a beaten egg, and boil
in boiling oil until they turn yellow.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
91
RAW FISH PARTY
4
YUE SANG
7 pounds pike
6 pounds carrots
2 cups green peppers
2 pieces ginger root
1 cup Chinese Chow Chow
A few lemon leaves
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1 tablespoonful fried sesamum-seed
1 teaspoonful powdered salted almonds
1 teaspoonful powdered salted peanuts
3 tablespoonfuls peanut oil
1 tablespoonful vinegar
2 cups chrysanthemums
(a) Remove the skin from the fish and take
out the bones. Cut into pieces 1/16 inch by 1
inch by 1 1/2 inches. Dry with a clean cloth.
(b) Cut into pieces 1/16 inch by 1/16 inch
by 1 1/2 inches the carrots, green peppers, gin-
ger root, Chow Chow, and lemon leaves.
(c) Put the carrots into a suitable bag and
squeeze all the juice out of them.
(d) Put the vinegar and a little salt in a
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
103
#
SHRIMP CHOP SUEY
1
chow HAR YUN
2 pounds shrimp with the shells off
2 cups dry mushrooms
2 cups bean sprouts
1 piece of onion cut into threads
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
(a) Fry mushrooms, bean sprouts, and on-
ion in an oily pan for 10 minutes. Add
enough water to cover. Boil for 15 minutes.
(b) Fry the shrimp in a hot, oiled pan and
add the Fun Wine. Keep frying until the
shrimp turns red.
(c) Mix the shrimp with the mushrooms,
bean sprouts, and onion, and add 2 cups of
primary soup. When it boils, add Chinese
gravy.
104
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
STEAMED SHRIMP
DON HAR
24 large shrimps
48 pieces bamboo shoots
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1 teaspoonful ginger root juice
(a) Remove the shells from the shrimps and
cut into halves. Fry in a hot oiled pan.
(b) Mix together the Fun Wine and the
ginger root juice. Add this liquid to the
shrimps. Cook for 5 minutes. Drain off the
liquid but do not throw it away.
(c) The 48 pieces of bamboo shoots should
be the same size as the halves of the shrimp,
1/16 inch long. Place the shrimp and bamboo
shoots in a bowl, arranging them-first a piece
of shrimp and then a piece of bamboo shoot,
and so on-having them parallel.
(d) Add 1/2 cup primary soup and steam for
2 hours.
(e) Turn now into another bowl by placing
the two bowls mouth to mouth. Add gravy
and serve.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
105
FRIED SHRIMP
#
JOUT HAR
2 pounds shrimp
2 pounds green peppers
2 eggs
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
(a) Mix up the shrimp, eggs and corn-
starch. Add salt to suit the taste. Put one
by one into a pan of boiling oil. Fry until
brown.
(b) Cut the green peppers into pieces the
same size as the shrimp. Fry in an oiled pan
for 2 minutes. Then add the shrimp and mix
well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover.
Cook for 10 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
Garnish with parsley and serve.
106
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
OYSTER CHOP SUEY
A
chow HO SE PIN
2 dozen oysters
2, cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups celery
A few pieces of pork
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1 teaspoonful ginger juice
(a) Cut the oysters, bamboo shoots, chest-
nuts, celery, and pork into fragments.
(b) Put the oysters into boiling water for
10 minutes. Then fry the oysters in a hot oiled
pan.
(c) Add the Fun Wine and the ginger
juice. Continue to cook for 5 minutes.
(d) Fry the bamboo shoots, water chestnuts,
celery, and pork in an oiled pan for 5 minutes.
Add to oysters.
(e) Add 1 cup primary soup and boil until
about 1 cup of liquid remains.
(f) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
107
STEAMED OYSTERS
tx
DON HO SE
2 1/2 dozen oysters
Lard-skin (enough to wrap the oysters)
1 teaspoonful ginger juice
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
Whites of 2 eggs
(a) Wash the oysters. Boil them in water
for 10 minutes. Then fry in hot oil.
(b) Add the Fun Wine and ginger juice.
Fry for 7 minutes.
(c) Cut the lard-skin into pieces as wide
as the oysters and about 4 inches long. Wrap
each oyster with a piece of lard-skin, using
the white of egg for paste.
(d) Put the wrapped oysters into boiling
oil and fry until they are brown.
(e) Now set them in a bowl and steam for
1 1/2 hours.
Serve on lettuce.
108
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
ROASTED OYSTERS
HE It
SU HO SEE
2 1/2 dozen oysters
1 cup red vinegar
Sesamum-seed oil
Sugar
Salt
(a) Dry the oysters with a clean, dry cloth.
Then dip in oil.
(b) String the oysters through a wire and
roast until done over a charcoal fire. Have
them about 1 foot above the fire.
Serve with a sauce made of the red vinegar,
sesamum-seed oil, sugar, and salt.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
109
LOBSTER CHOP SUEY
A
chow LUNG HAR PIN
1 lobster (about 6 pounds)
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups celery
A few pieces of Chinese onion
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1 teaspoonful ginger root juice
(a) Boil the lobster in water until it turns
red. Take off the shell and cut the meat into
fragments not longer than 1 1/2 inches.
(b) Fry the lobster with the Fun Wine, and
ginger root juice for 5 minutes over a hot fire.
(c) Cut the bamboo shoots, water chestnuts,
celery, and onion into pieces the size of the
lobster fragments. Fry these in a hot, oiled
pan for 3 minutes. Add water enough to
cover and cook for 10 minutes. Then mix with
the lobster.
(d) When there is about 1 cup of liquid
left, add Chinese gravy, mix well, and serve.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
111
CRAB SOUP
HI TONG
6 crabs
1 cup water chestnuts
1 cup bamboo shoots
1 cup mushrooms
7 pints primary soup
(a) Remove the shells from the crabs and
put into boiling water for 1/2 hour. By means
of a fork take out the meat and break into
small pieces.
(b) Cut secondary vegetables into pieces.
Cook for 20 minutes.
(c) Now put the secondary vegetables in
with the crab.
(d) Add primary soup and cook for 15 min-
utes.
(e) Add Chinese gravy, mix well, and re-
move from the stove at once. Stir in parsley
and garnish.
112
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FRIED SOFT-SHELL CRAB
* tike
OUT YUN HORK HI
6 soft-shell crabs
2 eggs
1 cup red vinegar
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
(a) Mix the crab with the cornstarch and
eggs. Salt to taste.
(b) Fry in boiling oil until golden brown.
Serve with the red vinegar.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
113
FRIED CHINESE TOMATO WITH
CRAB
HI SUE KAR
6 crabs
Chinese tomato equal in weight to crabs, in-
cluding shell
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
1 cup primary soup
(a) Wash the crabs. Open the shell. Steam
until they turn red. By means of a fork take
off all the meat. Tear it into small pieces.
(b) Fry the tomato in boiling oil until it
turns yellow. Then mash into starch.
(c) Fry the crab in a hot, oiled pan.
(d) Add ginger juice and Fun Wine. Turn
often.
(e) Add the tomato. Mix well.
(f) Add the primary soup. When all is dry,
remove from the stove at once.
(g) Add salt and red vinegar to improve
the taste.
Garnish with parsley.
128
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PLAIN OMELET
El
chow DON
12 eggs
A little oil
Salt
Chinese ham dice
Parsley
(a) Break the eggs in a bowl. Add oil and
salt. Beat well.
(b) Put plenty of oil in a hot frying-pan.
Be sure that every part of the pan is covered
with oil.
(c) Have a medium fire. Place the eggs in
the pan and keep turning with a cooking-
shovel.
(d) When the omelet is done add the Chi-
nese ham dice and parsley for garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
129
PORK OMELET
FO YUNG YORK
12 eggs
1 pound pork
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
Twelve eggs, a little oil, salt, Chinese ham
dice, parsley.
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, pork, bamboo shoots,
and water chestnuts into threads 1 1/2 inches
long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
130
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHICKEN OMELET
FO YUN GUY
12 eggs
1 1/2 pounds chicken
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, chicken, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
131
SHRIMP OMELET
FO YUNG HAR
12 eggs
1 pound shrimp
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, shrimp, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
132
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CRAB OMELET
FO YUNG HIGH
6 crabs
12 eggs
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, crabs, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK 133
LOBSTER OMELET
FO YUNG LUNG HA
3 pounds lobster
12 eggs
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 onions
(a) Beat the eggs well in a bowl with oil
and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, lobster, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long. Cook until done.
(c) Add beaten eggs and mix well. Con-
tinue to cook until eggs are done.
134
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
BEAN CAKE OMELET
(I)
FO YUNG DOW FO
12 eggs
A little oil
Salt
6 pieces bean cake
Chinese ham dice
Parsley
(a) Beat the eggs with a little salt and oil.
(b) Fry the bean cakes in an oiled pan.
Add water and boil for 10 minutes.
(c) Put plenty of oil in the pan, greasing
it well all over. Put in the egg. Keep on
turning until nearly done. Add the bean cake
and cook until done.
Use Chinese ham dice and parsley for gar-
nish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
135
FRIED EGGS
XF El
YOUT JAR DON
12 eggs
1 cup dried mushrooms
1 1/2 pounds chicken
A few Chinese onions
A piece of ginger root
(a) Boil the eggs until hard. Take off the
shell without destroying the shape of the eggs.
Now fry them in boiling oil.
(b) Cut the mushrooms, chicken, bamboo
shoots, and ginger root into threads 1 1/2 inches
long. Fry for 5 minutes in a hot, oiled pan.
(c) Pour this over the eggs. Add twice
more than enough primary soup to cover and
cook until 2 cups of liquid remain.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
Serve with parsley as a garnish.
136
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
EGG ROLL
DAN GUN
6 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls dry mushrooms
2 tablespoonfuls bean sprouts
2 tablespoonfuls chicken meat
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham
(a) Break the eggs into a bowl. Beat well
with oil and salt. Have a low fire. Oil pan.
Place in it one tablespoonful of well-beaten
egg. Take hold of the pan and let the egg
run all over the surface of the pan. A layer
of egg will be formed.
(b) Cut the mushrooms, Chinese ham, bean
sprouts, and chicken into threads. Fry for 5
minutes in an oiled pan. Salt to suit the taste.
Add enough water to cover and cook until dry.
When nearly dry, turn constantly to prevent
burning.
(c) Roll this in the egg, making the roll 1
inch in diameter and as long as the egg layer.
Use white of egg for paste. Cut carefully into
the desired length.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
137
CHECKER-BOARD EGGS
El
KA GE DON
12 eggs
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
2 cups bamboo shoots
1 cup celery
1 cup water chestnuts
(a) Cut the ham and secondary vegetables
into threads 1 1/2 inches long. Fry in an oiled
pan. Mix well. Add enough primary soup
to cover. Cook until done. Salt to suit the
taste.
(b) Beat the eggs well with oil and salt.
Put them into a hot pan and let them run all
over the pan evenly. Turn over.
(c) Put this egg layer on a dish. Cover
one-half of the layer with the fried ham, bam-
boo shoot, celery, and water chestnuts about 3/4
inch thick. Then cover this with the other
half of the egg layer.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
138
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FISH ROLL
El
YEE YORK DAN GUN
6 eggs
4 pounds pike
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
1 cup peanuts, pounded
1 cup Chinese roast pork
(a) Break the eggs into a bowl. Beat well
with oil and salt. Have a low fire. Oil pan.
Place into it 1 tablespoonful well beaten egg.
Take hold of the pan and let the egg run over
the surface of the pan. A layer of egg will be
formed.
(b) Remove the skin from the pike and
take out the bones. Grind the meat through
a fine grinder several times, or pound with a
hammer as fine as possible. Beat well for 3/4
hour with salt and a small amount of oil.
(c) Cut the Chinese ham and pork into dice.
Mix well with the remaining egg, the pike,
and the peanuts.
(d) Roll this mixture into the egg layer,
140
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
GOLD AND SILVER EGG
El
GOM NON DON
12 eggs
3 pounds pike
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
(a) Break the eggs carefully. Put the
whites in one bowl and the yolks in another
bowl. To each bowl add an equal amount of
cold, boiled water and mix well.
(b) Grind or hammer the pike (with skin
and bones removed). Beat with a little water.
Mix well with the whites of the eggs. Salt to
suit the taste.
(c) Chop the Chinese ham into pieces as
small as possible. Mix with the yolks of the
eggs. Salt to suit the taste.
(d) Now put the Chinese ham on one side
of the dish and the pike on the other side. Do
not let them mix. Steam for 20 minutes.
When done there will be gold color on one side
of the dish and silver on the other side.
Add oil and parsley before serving.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
141
STUFFED EGG
YUNG DON
6 eggs
Shrimp or crab meat chopped fine
Chinese ham, diced
Chicken, chopped fine
Water chestnuts or Chinese onions chopped
fine
(The amount of meat and water chestnuts
combined should be one-half the volume of the
yolks of the eggs.)
(a) Oil enough egg cups. Break the eggs
carefully into these, putting in the whites first.
Now put the unbeaten yolk in the center of
the cup, letting it float on top. Steam the
eggs until done.
(b) With a spoon carefully take off the
yolk of the egg.
(c) Fill the egg with the chicken and other
ingredients, well mixed. Steam about 20 min-
utes.
Serve with sesamum-seed oil and sauce.
142
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FISH SWIMMING IN A GOLDEN
POND
THE
El
YUE YORK JING DON
7 eggs
2 pounds pike
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the skin from the pike. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit
the taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the pike on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
143
SHRIMP IN GOLDEN POND
HAR JING DON
of eggs
1 pound shrimp
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the skin from the shrimp. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit the
taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the shrimp on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
144
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CRAB IN GOLDEN POND
the
HI JOK JING DON
7 eggs
3 pounds crab
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the shell from the crab. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit
the taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the crab on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
145
LOBSTER IN GOLDEN POND
* B
LUNG HA JING DON
7 eggs
3 pounds lobster
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the shell from the lobster. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit
the taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the lobster on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
153
BEAN BISCUIT
15
DO SAR BOW
1 pound red beans
2 pounds flour
1/2 cup lard
1 teaspoonful salt
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
(a) Cook the beans in water for 3. hours,
and mash. Place in water so that the skins of
the beans float on top. Remove these and then
filter the beans through a thick cloth and let
dry. Now mix with the lard and a little sugar.
(b) Sift the flour and mix with it enough
cold water to make a thin dough.
(c) Roll the dough out thin. Cut in the size
of biscuits.
(d) Now roll these biscuits flat and fill each
one with the beans, wrapping the dough around
the beans to make a perfect ball. Close the
dough up carefully.
(e) Let the dough biscuits stand in a
double-boiler for 10 minutes before putting on
the fire. Steam for 3/4 hour.
154
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
STUFFED SQUASH
II
YUNG CHIN GUAR
1 squash
3 pounds pike, ground
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham dice
2 Chinese onions, diced
1/2 cup salted almonds, diced
(a) Put the pike in a small amount of salt
water and stir for 1/2 hour. Then mix with the
ham, onions, and almonds.
(b) Remove the seeds from the squash and
fill with the pike, ham, etc. Fry in boiling oil
until yellow.
(c) Cook in primary soup for 1/2 hour.
(d) Add a gravy made of Chinese sauce, a
few drops of sesamum-seed oil, sweet sauce,
and cornstarch.
Garnish with parsley.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
155
STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS
YUNG LAR CHU
18 green peppers
3 pounds pike, ground
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham dice
2 Chinese onions, diced
1/2 cup salted almonds, diced
(a) Put the pike in a small amount of salt
water and stir for 1/2 hour. Then mix with the
ham, onions, and almonds.
(b) Cut the peppers into halves, take out
the seeds, and fill with the pike, ham, etc. Fry
in boiling oil until yellow.
(c) Cook in primary soup for 1/2 hour.
(d) Add a gravy made of Chinese sauce, a
few drops of sesamum-seed oil, sweet sauce,
and cornstarch.
Garnish with parsley.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
157
FOOD OF THE GOD OF LAW HORN
LAW HORN JAI
12 pieces bean cake
2 cups white nuts
2 cups fungus
A few pieces of bean stick
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups dry mushrooms
(a) Cut each bean cake into 4 pieces. Fry
in boiling oil until nicely brown. Put in cold
water and change the water until no oil floats
on the top.
(b) Soak the fungus, bean stick, and nuts
in cold water for 1/2 hour.
(c) Cut the bamboo shoots into pieces 1 1/2
inches by 1 inch by 1/16 inch.
(d) Put all the ingredients except the
mushrooms into an oiled pan and cover with
water. Cook for 1 hour.
(e) Add the mushrooms and cook for 15
minutes.
(f) Add Chinese gravy.
158
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
SOFT IMMORTAL FOOD
YUEN JAI
12 pieces bean cake
2 cups dry mushrooms
4 ounces Chinese vermicelli
A few bean sticks
(a) Cut each piece of bean cake into 4
pieces.
(b) Soak the mushrooms, vermicelli, and
bean sticks in water for 1/2 hour. Cut the ver-
micelli into pieces 3 inches long.
(c) Put all of the ingredients in cold water
and cook for 1 hour. Put in plenty of oil and
red cheese.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
159
HARD IMMORTAL FOOD
ARN JAI
12 pieces bean cake
East melon (twice the amount of bean cake)
2 cups white nuts
(a) Cut each bean cake into 4 pieces. Cut
the melon into pieces 1 inch by 1 inch by 1 1/2
inches.
(b) Fry all in an oiled pan.
(c) Add enough water to cover. Add 1/4
cake of red cheese and plenty of oil. Mix.
Cook for 1 hour.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
183
FRIED RICE
ii
chow LON FON
4 bowls cooked rice
3/4 pounds chicken or pork cut into cubes
2 cups secondary vegetables
5 eggs
1 cup primary soup
(a) Put the rice in a hot, oiled pan and
cook until it changes color, turning frequently
with a cooking-shovel.
(b) Fry the chicken and secondary vege-
tables for 3 minutes in a hot, oiled pan. Add
cold water and cook for 15 minutes. Pour
off the water and add the rice.
(c) Beat the eggs well and add to the rice.
(d) Add the primary soup and continue to
cook until the egg appears to be done.
184
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHINESE MEAT BISCUIT
#
SANG YORK BOW
6 cups flour
1 yeast cake
2 small tablespoonfuls salt
1 tablespoonful sugar
3 potatoes
1 tablespoonful lard
(a) Wash and pare the potatoes. Cover
with cold water. Boil until tender. Mash
the potatoes in the same water in which they
are boiled. Let stand until just luke-warm.
(b) Put in the salt and sugar.
(c) Add the lard and yeast cake. Dissolve
thoroughly.
(d) Sift the flour thoroughly and put into
a pan. Make a hole in the middle of it.
Slowly pour in the potato mixture. Mix well.
(e) Dredge the hands well with flour.
Turn the dough out on the mixing-board. Use
as little flour as possible on the hands when
kneading the dough-only enough to keep the
186
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
ALMOND CAKE
1 iff
HON YUN BUEN
1 pound flour
1/2 pound sugar
1/2 pound lard
5 eggs
1/4 teaspoonful alkaline solution
(a) Mix the flour, sugar, lard, eggs, and
solution well on a suitable board. Add a little
quantity of lard at a time until every particle
of flour will contain an equal amount of each
substance.
(b) Make into a cake of any desired size.
In the center of each place an almond.
(c) Put into a suitable pan and bake in the
oven until nicely browned. The length of time
depends on the temperature of the oven and
the amount of cake.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
187
CHINESE SPONGE CAKE
*
GUY DON GO
10 eggs
1 pound sugar
2/3 pound flour
A few drops of lemon juice
(a) Beat the eggs in a suitable bowl. Mix
well with sugar. Beat for an hour, being care-
ful always to beat in one direction.
(b) Mix with the flour and lemon juice.
(c) Put into a suitable pan and steam for
3/4 hour.
188
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
WATER CHESTNUT PUDDING
it +
MAR TI GO
2 cups water chestnut powder
1 cup sugar
6 cups water
(a) Dissolve the water chestnut powder in
a little cold water. Mash well.
(b) Now add the sugar and the 6 cups of
water. Stir well.
(c) Put into a suitable pan. Steam until
done (about 1 hour).
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
189
LILY-ROOT PUDDING
OUT FUN GO
2 cups lily-root powder
1 cup sugar
6 cups water
(a) Dissolve the lily-root powder in a small
quantity of cold water. Mash well.
(b) To this add the 6 cups of water and the
sugar. Stir well.
(c) Put into a suitable pan. Steam until
done (about 1 hour).
190
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
GRAY POTATO PUDDING
wo TOU GO
1 cup dry pork
1 cup dry shrimp
1 cup dry Chinese olives
1 cup dry Chinese frankfurters
1 cup dry Chinese onions
2 pounds gray potatoes
1 pound Chinese gim-flower
(a) Cut into small pieces the pork, shrimp,
olives, frankfurters, and onions.
(b) Pare the potatoes. Rub them on a
rough grater, or on a board having plenty of
nails pointing out 1/16 inch.
(c) Mix all of the ingredients together with
2 bowls of plain cold water. Salt to suit the
taste.
(d) Put into a suitable pan and steam for
1 hour.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
191
PEANUT CANDY
the 4
FAR SUNG TONG
1 pound peanuts
1/2 pound sugar
(a) Fry the nuts in a hot pan for 10 min-
utes. Take off the skins.
(b) Put 1 bowl of water in a hot, oiled pan.
To this add the sugar. Cook, stirring con-
stantly, until there is no water left.
(c) Mix the peanuts with the sugar on a
board. Roll while hot until the mixture is 1/2
inch thick. Let cool.
(d) Cut to desired size.
192
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
SESAMUM-SEED CANDY
/N
GE MAR TONG
1 pound sugar
4 ounces cornstarch
2 handfuls sesamum-seeds
(a) Oil pan well. Pour into it 1 bowl of
water and then the sugar and cornstarch.
Cook until no water is left.
(b) Roll out on a board sprinkled with the
sesamum-seeds. Roll into balls or bars. Let
cool.
Bread, Biscuits
Rolls
WAFFLES
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups milk
2 eggs
1 tablespoon melted shortening
Sift together flour, baking powder and salt; add milk to slightly
beaten egg yolks. Mix well and add to dry ingredients. Add melted
shortening and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs.
Evelyn Leander, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
GRIDDLE CAKES
2 eggs
2 cups flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons sugar
2 cups milk
Butter, size of walnut
Pinch of salt
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs, add milk, stir slowly into
first mixture. Beat batter until perfectly smooth; stir in salt and
melted butter. No grease with aluminum griddle. This recipe is
for about four or five people.
Helen Hoyt, Los Angeles, Cal.
University of California.
GRAHAM PANCAKES
1 cup white flour
1 cup graham flour
Level teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups milk
Heaping teaspoon baking
1 teaspoon sugar
powder
1 egg
Sift flour, salt and baking powder; add milk, sugar and well-beaten
egg. Fry like ordinary pancakes on hot greased griddle. This
serves three.
Bernice Woehler Taylor, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
POP OVERS
1 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 cup milk
2 eggs
1 teaspoon melted butter or fat
Mix salt and flour; add eggs and milk gradually. Beat with egg
beater and turn into hot greased muffin tins and bake in hot oven.
Note: Have oven very hot for first fifteen minutes, then reduce
heat and continue baking about thirty minutes. Makes one dozen.
Charlotte Carpenter, Oakland, Cal.
University of California.
ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS
1 cup entire wheat flour
1 cup flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
1 egg
3 tablespoons melted
4 teaspoons baking powder
shortening
Mix dry ingredients; add milk gradually, egg well-beaten and
butter; bake in hot oven in buttered muffin tins about twenty
minutes.
Helen Faull, Alameda, Cal.
University of California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o O K B o O K
3
GRAHAM NUT MUFFINS
1 cup graham flour
2 cups wheat flour
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup nuts
2 cups sour milk
Mix dry ingredients; add butter, nuts and sugar. Beat in two
cups sour milk. Grease and flour pans. Bake in moderate oven
fifteen to twenty minutes.
Mary Fetzer White, Ottumwa, Ia.
Northwestern University.
ENGLISH MUFFINS
Set late the night before, for breakfast next morning, one cake
Fleischmann's yeast, dissolved in three-quarters cup lukewarm
water, one and one-half cups of milk and water, one and one-half
tablespoons sugar, one egg, one and one-half tablespoons melted
butter, one-half teaspoon salt and flour for stiff batter (about four
cups). Mix butter, sugar, salt, egg, milk, yeast, water and flour.
Let rise over night. In the morning, drop from spoon in ungreased
muffin tins and bake in moderate oven. Makes 20.
Helena Olesen, Humboldt, Iowa.
University of Wisconsin.
BRAN GEMS
Sift together:
1 cup bran
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
2 level teaspoons baking
Pinch of salt
powder
1 tabiespoon sugar
Beat one egg with one-half cup sweet milk and a teaspoon of melted
butter and stir into dry ingredients. Bake in hot buttered gem pans
in moderate oven.
Mildred Brown, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
DATE MUFFINS
1/3 cup butter
1/4 cup sugar
1 egg
2 cups pastry flour
3/4 cup milk
3 level teaspoons baking
1/2 teaspoon salt
powder
Scant 1/2 pound dates cut rather fine
Cream butter, add sugar and egg beaten light; sift flour, salt and
baking powder three times. Add these to mixture alternately with
the milk. Beat thoroughly and then add dates. Put in well-buttered
muffin pan and bake in hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Makes
twelve muffins.
Lillian Wilson Vogt, Chicago, III.
University of Illinois.
CORNMEAL MUFFINS
1 cup flour
1 cup cornmeal
2 tablespoons sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons melted fat
Sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs slightly, add milk, fat and combine
with dry ingredients. Bake in greased muffin tin in moderate oven
twenty to twenty-five minutes.
Blanche Bobbitt, Los Angeles, Cal.
University of California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
4
OATMEAL MUFFINS
1 cup milk
2/3 cup rolled oats
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons melted fat
Scald milk and pour over rolled oats; cool and add well-beaten egg,
then salt, flour, sugar and baking powder sifted together, and lastly
melted fat. Beat well, place in muffin tins and bake in a moderate
oven. Makes twelve muffins.
Lois Denman Stubblefield, Bloomington, III.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
ROCK BUNS
2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon ginger
3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons lard
1/3 cup currants
1 egg
1/4 cup milk
Nutmeg
Mix as for baking powder biscuits.
M. Carrol Gumm, Marseilles, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CREAM SCONES
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
3 teaspoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Sift three times. Rub in four rounding tablespoons butter with
tips of fingers. Add two eggs beaten (reserving small amount of
unbeaten white) with one-third cup sweet milk. Toss on floured
board and pat to one-half inch thickness. Brush over with egg
white; sprinkle with sugar; cut and bake fifteen minutes in quick
oven.
Helen Binnie, Kenosha, Wis.
University of Wisconsin.
SCOTCH SHORTBREAD
2 pounds or 8 cups flour
1/2 pound or 1 cup butter
1/2 pound or 1 1/2 cups fruit
1/2 pound or 1 cup butter
or brown sugar.
substitute as Crisco.
Sift flour and sugar; rub in butter until smooth. Roll out three-
quarter inches thick and cut in squares or with fancy cutter. Bake
in a moderate oven.
Irene Madill, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
QUAKER OATS BISCUIT
Take one cup Quaker Oats, over which pour one pint boiling water;
let cool. Add one tablespoon butter and lard, one-half cup molasses,
one level tablespoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one yeast (com-
pressed). Mix with wheat flour as for biscuit. Let rise over night.
Bake in moderate oven.
Katherine Wilson, Evanston, III.
Northwestern University.
DROP CHEESE BISCUITS
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fat
Sift dry ingredients; rub in fat; add milk and grated cheese. Shape
3/4 cup milk
1/2 cup grated cheese
and place on buttered tin and bake in hot oven.
Ethel Lawlor Davis, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
C O L L E G E W o M A N S COO K B O
o K
5
DIXIE BISCUITS
1 cup hot mashed potatoes
1 cup potato water
1 cup cold water
2/3 cup sugar
1 scant cup lard, melted
1 cake Fleischman's yeast
Mix above ingredients; let stand two hours, then add:
1 tablespoon salt
2 well-beaten eggs
Flour to make very stiff dough
Knead well; grease top thoroughly and set in cold place until needed.
Make out biscuits three hours before baking. Make in form of
pocket book rolls. Dough can be kept for several days if kept cold,
and thoroughly greased.
Vina Freitag Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo.
University of Illinois.
PINWHEEL BISCUITS
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons butter or sub-
2/3 cup milk
stitute
1/3 cup finely chopped raisins
1/3 teaspoon cinnamon
or currants
2 tablespoons finely chopped citron
Mix as baking powder biscuit. Roll to one-quarter inch in thick-
ness. Brush over with melted butter. Sprinkle with fruit, sugar
and cinnamon. Roll like jell roll. Cut off pieces three-quarters inch
in thickness. Place on buttered tin and bake twelve minutes in
hot oven. Currants may be substituted for raisins and citron.
Frances House Swan, Livonia, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
MAPLE ROLL BISCUIT
3 cups flour
6 teaspoons baking powder
3 tablespoons melted fat
1 teaspoon salt
Sweet milk to make soft dough
Roll out without much handling about one-half inch thick and
sprinkle thickly with brown sugar and roll up like cinnamon rolls.
Cut the roll in slices one and one-half inches thick and bake one-
half hour in slow oven. Fine with coffee.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
QUICK TEA ROLLS
1 yeast cake
1 cup scalded milk
1/2 cup tepid water
1 tablespoon sugar
3 cups flour
2 tablespoons lard or butter
1 teaspoon salt
Add shortening to milk and let cool until lukewarm. Soften yeast
cake and dissolve sugar in water; combine mixtures. Beat in half
of flour until very smooth; add balance with salt; knead thoroughly.
Roll out, place in pan and let rise two hours. Bake fifteen minutes
in moderate oven.
Lottie B. Crow Porter, Chickasha, Okla.
Brenau College.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
6
PARKER HOUSE ROLLS
2 cups scalded milk
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 yeast cake dissolved in
Flour
1/4 cup luke warm water
Add butter, sugar and salt to the milk when lukewarm; add yeast
and three cups of flour. Beat thoroughly, cool and let rise until
light. Add enough flour to knead. Let rise again, toss on a lightly
floured board, knead and roll out to one-half inch in thickness. Shape
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. Crease through the
middle, brush over with butter, fold and press together. Place in a
greased pan (one inch apart), cover, let rise and bake in a hot oven
twelve to fifteen minutes.
Doris Morton, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
LUNCHEON ROLLS
1 yeast cake
1 1/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons lard or butter
1 egg
4 cups sifted flour
Scald and cool milk until tepid; add yeast cake and sugar. When
dissolved, add lard and two cups flour. Beat well with spoon. Add
well-beaten egg, salt and remainder of flour. Knead, using as little
flour as possible. Place in greased bowl and let rise two hours or
until light. Form into biscuit size of walnut. Place in greased pan.
Let rise for about one-half hour or until about double size. Brush
over with milk or butter and bake for ten minutes in hot oven. This
will make forty rolls.
Julia Rowley Rogers, Syracuse, N.Y.
Syracuse University.
CINNAMON COFFEE CAKE
2 Pans
1 beaten egg
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon melted butter
Beat the above ingredients together.
1 cup sweet milk or butter-
1/2 teaspoon soda
milk
2 1/2 cups flour
Pinch of salt
If sweet milk is used, use three teaspoons baking powder. Beat
egg, sugar and butter; add milk; lastly, flour sifted with salt and
baking powder. Place on buttered pan and brush top with mixture.
Bake in moderate oven.
Top Mixture
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon melted butter
Mix well.
Mary Clendenin, East Orange, N. J.
Allegheny College.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
7
CINNAMON FLOP
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1 scant cup milk
2 1/2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
Cream butter, add sugar, half the milk, half the flour sifted, then
the remainder of each, then salt and baking powder. Bake in
moderate oven in pan for sheet cake. When partly cold spread with
the following icing:
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup butter
Cinnamon to taste
Cream butter, add sugar and cinnamon.
Jean Curley Wilcox, Baltimore, Md.
Goucher College.
COFFEE CAKE
1 1/2 cups flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
3 tablespoons melted short-
1 egg
ening
1/2 cup milk
2 tablespoons melted short-
1 tablespoon flour
ening
1/2 tablespoon cinnamon
3 tablespoons sugar
Sift first four ingredients together; rub in melted shortening. Beat
egg with milk and stir into above mixture. Put in shallow pan.
Mix well, last four ingredients and spread on dough. Bake twenty
minutes.
Louise Whitmore Arthur, New Haven, N. Y.
Boston University.
QUICK COFFEE CAKE
2 cups sifted flour
1/2 teaspoon soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sugar
1 well beaten egg
1 cup thick sour milk
2 tablespoons melted butter
Cream sugar and butter; add soda dissolved in milk; beaten egg and
flour sifted with spices. Shape, place on buttered pans and spread
with following mixture.
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup chopped nuts
Dot with pieces of butter and bake in moderate oven 20 minutes.
Winifred Montgomery, Marseilles, III.
University of Illinois.
SOUTHERN EGG BREAD
1 cup buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon lard
Cornmeal
Mix all together and add enough cornmeal to make a stiff batter
(about 1,14 cups). Pour into hot, greased muffin tins and bake.
Margaret Thompson Castleberry, Gainesville, Ga.
Brenau College.
CORN BREAD
1 cup white flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cornmeal
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1/4 cup sugar
4 tablespoons melted fat
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk, well beaten eggs and fat.
Bake in greased muffin tins in a hot oven. May be baked in a shallow
pan.
La Beryl Smart, Detroit, Mich.
University of Michigan.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o K B o o K
8
SOUTHERN SPOON CORN BREAD
Add one and one-half teaspoons salt to three cups of boiling water.
Set over hot fire and gradually stir in one-third cup breakfast
hominy. Let cook three or four minutes while stirring, then let cook
undisturbed over boiling water thirty minutes. Add three table-
spoons butter, three-fourths cup milk, three eggs beaten light and
one and one-half cups corn meal sifted with two teaspoons baking
powder. Turn into buttered baking dish and let bake three-fourths
of an hour. Serve while hot with a spoon.
This serves six or seven people.
Virginia Clybourne Norris, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
DATE BREAD
3 cups graham flour
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon soda
2 cups sour milk
1 cup chopped dates
1 cup chopped walnuts
Combine in order mentioned. Beat well and turn into bread pans
and bake in moderate oven for about forty-five minutes.
Makes 2 loaves.
G. T. Paton, Seattle, Wash.
University of Seattle.
GRAHAM BREAD
2 cups graham flour or 1 cup
1 cup white flour
graham flour and 1 cup
1 1/2 cups sour milk
corn meal
1/2 cup molasses
2 level teaspoons soda
Add raisins, nuts or dates
1 level teaspoon salt
according to taste
Mix flours, salt; add milk, then molasses and soda. Raisins or nuts
should be added last. Turn into greased bread pan and bake three-
quarters hour in moderate oven.
Mary Cutting, Kalamazoo, Mich.
University of Michigan.
BROWN BREAD
One cupful sour milk, one-half cup molasses. Mix and add one level
teaspoon baking soda. Stir well and add one-half cupful of sugar,
one well-beaten egg, one-half teaspoon of salt, one and one-fourth
cupfuls graham flour, one and three-fourths cupfuls white flour,
one-half cupful nuts, and one-half cupful raisins. Bake in a slow
oven for one hour.
Catherine Hope, Jefferson City, Mo
University of Missouri.
STEAMED BROWN BREAD
2 1/2 cups graham flour
1 1/2 cups cornmeal
1 cup molasses
2 cups buttermilk
2 teaspoons soda
Dissolve soda in buttermilk. Mix in order named. Steam three
hours.
Stella Meyer, Columbia, Mo.
University of Missouri.
BOSTON BROWN BREAD
1 1/2 cups commeal
1/2 cup molasses
1 1/2 cups graham flour
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups sour milk
Combine ingredients in order named. Beat well and pour into
greased bread pan and bake in moderate oven about one hour.
Helen Murray, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N. S C O o K B
o O K
9
NUT BREAD
4 cups flour
1 cup nuts (chopped)
1 cup sugar
2 cups sweet milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1 teaspoon salt
Sift the dry ingredients together. Add to these the milk. Mix well.
Add the nuts, then the well beaten egg. Pour in buttered pans. Let
stand for 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven for one-half hour.
Gertrude Murray, Ames, Iowa.
Iowa State College.
OATMEAL BREAD
1 cup flour
1 1/2 cups cornmeal
1 teaspoon salt
5 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup cooked oatmeal
2 tablespoons shortening
1 1/4 cups milk
Mix well and turn into greased pans and bake forty to forty-five
minutes.
Evelyn M. Satrum, Buffalo, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
PEANUT BREAD
1 cup salted peanuts, shelled
4 teaspoons baking powder
and ground in meat
4 cups flour
grinder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1 egg
1 1/2 cups milk
Beat well, pour into long, high bread tin and let stand twenty
minutes. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. Slice when a day old.
Good for bread and butter sandwiches.
Alice Mundorf Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
GRAPE-NUT BREAD
1 1/2 cups grape-nuts
2 cups milk
1 cup sugar
Handful raisins
Mix and let stand fifteen minutes.
1 egg
3 1/2 cups bread flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons baking powder
Combine ingredients, and put in bread tins and let stand one and
one-half hours before baking in moderate oven. If sour milk is
used, add two teaspoons soda. The above makes two medium-sized
loaves. Let loaves stand several hours after baking before they are
cut.
Ruth Harrington, Stoneham, Mass.
Boston University.
CORN PONE
3 pints cornmeal (half
Water enough to make stiff
cooked to a mush)
mush
2 teaspoons salt
2 eggs
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 cake yeast
Cook half of cornmeal with water enough for soft mush. Add re-
mainder of cornmeal and cook until a stiff mixture. Add salt, yeast
and sugar and allow mixture to stand over night. In morning
mixture is very light. Add fat and well beaten eggs and bake in
buttered dishes.
Margaret Middlekauf, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
C O L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
10
GLUTEN BREAD
1 pint water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 cake yeast
1 tablespoon butter
5 to 6 cups gluten flour
1/4 cup luke warm water
Add salt and butter to water. Add yeast dissolved in lukewarm
water and sufficient flour to knead. Knead well. Put in bowl,
cover, and set in warm place to rise. When double in bulk, bake
50 minutes in an oven with decreasing heat.
1 cup nut meats may be added to dough just before putting into pans.
Good for people with Diabetes.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, III.
University of Wisconsin.
RUSK
To two cups light bread dough, add nutmeg and work in one
beaten egg. Heat one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon shortening,
one-half cup milk till shortening dissolves. Add flour to make stiff
as biscuit dough. Let rise till very light (four or five hours). Cut
off and shape into biscuits. Let rise again till very light and bake
in moderate oven forty minutes. Brush top with cloth moistened
with equal parts of milk and molasses.
Agnes Inglis, Middletown, Conn.
Wesleyan University
COLLEGE WOMAN S C 0 0 K B O O K
11
Soups
VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT STOCK
1/3 cup carrot
1 quart water
1/3 cup turnip
5 tablespoons of butter
1/2 cup celery
1/2 tablespoon of
1 1/2 cup potato
chopped parsley
1/2 cup onion
Salt and pepper
Wash and scrape small carrot. Cut in quarters, lengthwise; cut strips
thus made in thin slices, crosswise. Wash and pare half a turnip and
cut in slices same as carrot. Wash, pare and cut potatoes in small
pieces; cut celery in quarter inch pieces. Cut onion in thin slices.
Prepare vegetables before measuring. Mix vegetables (except
potatoes), cook 10 minutes in 4 tablespoons of butter, stirring con-
stantly. Add potatoes, cover and cook 2 minutes. Add water and
boil 1 hour. Beat with a fork to break vegetables, add remaining
butter, parsley, salt and pepper.
Ruth S. Hadden, Otisco, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
NOODLE SOUP
(Noodles)
3 eggs
Flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
Brown soup
Beat eggs and add salt. Add flour gradually until a stiff dough is
made. Knead for 15 to 20 minutes. Roll into a sheet as thin as
paper. Cover and allow to stand 30 minutes. Roll down into roll
and cut into strips 1/4 inch wide. Heat soup stock, add noodles to
boiling water and boil for 15 minutes, and then place them in hot
stock and serve.
Opal Wind, Omaha, Nebr.
Iowa State College.
FRENCH ONION SOUP
To chicken soup, add fried onions, 3 or 4 tablespoons of grated
parmesian cheese, bay leaf; cook 1/2 hour. Serve with croutons,
sprinkle with grated cheese on the top.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
University of Wisconsin.
OKRA GUMBO
1 large onion
1 can shrimps
1 pound okra
1 pint oysters
2 cups tomatoes
Salt
6 cups boiling water
Pepper
Paprika
Fry onion in bacon drippings or lard. With this fry the okra cut in
small slices. Cook over slow fire (covered). Add tomatoes and cook
well. Add boiling water, cook one hour. Then add the shrimps and
oysters. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. As soon as oysters
are done, serve gumbo with hot cooked rice.
Chicken may be used in place of shrimps and oysters, but in that
case the chicken must be cut in small pieces and fried before the okra.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
12
CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP
1/2 cup cream
1 tablespoon butter
1 qt. milk
2 tablespoons flour
1/3 lb. mushrooms
Salt, pepper
Place milk and cream in double boiler to heat; grind mushrooms in
food chopper and add to milk; cream butter and flour with a little
of the milk in separate pan and use it to thicken soup. Season to
taste. Cook at least 20 minutes.
Elizabeth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ESAU'S POTTAGE
4 small onions
2 tablespoons shortening
1/8 teaspoon soda
1 quart can tomatoes
1 pint can red kidney beans
1 pint hot milk
Salt and pepper
Chop onions and cook in shortening till yellow. Add beans and
tomatoes. Simmer till soft enough to force through a strainer.
When ready to serve, add soda and hot milk. Season to taste. More
milk may be added if desired.
Vesta B. Simpson, Winnetka, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CORN TOMATO CHOWDER
1/2-inch slice of fat salt pork
1 large onion, chopped
(ground)
1 pint canned corn
1 pint canned tomatoes
1 pint boiling water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 cup (or more) parboiled,
diced potatoes
Cook pork and onion till they are softened and yellowed. Then add
corn, water, and tomatoes. Cover and let simmer about an hour.
Then add potatoes and cook till they are done. When ready, if
too thick, add boiling water or scalded milk.
Vesta B. Simpson, Winnetka, III.
Northwestern University.
LIMA BEAN CHOWDER
1 cup dried baby lima beans
1 small onion
1/2 can tomatoes
1/8 teaspoon soda
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon flour
1 1/2 cups milk
Brown onion in butter. Simmer beans till tender with seasoning.
Make a white sauce of remainder of butter, flour and milk. Heat
all up together till thickened. Add tomatoes and soda just before
serving.
Ethel Bell, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
WASHINGTON CLAM CHOWDER
4 slices bacon
1 small onion
1 medium sized potato
1 tall can minced clams
1 cup rich milk
or 1 cup chopped fresh clams
and nectar
Cut bacon in fine pieces and fry. Add onion and cook slowly, stir-
ring often for six or eight minutes. Peel potato and cut in half-inch
dice. Add to the bacon and onion and pour over two cups boiling
water. Simmer ten minutes or until potato is nearly done. Then
add clams and milk and bring to a boil. Season with salt and pepper.
Add two or three crushed crackers just before serving. Serves
four people generously.
Erminie Lamb, Tacoma, Wash.
University of Washington.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S COO K B o o K
13
MOCK LOBSTER SOUP
1 quart milk
1 slice onion
1 piece bay leaf-parsley
Few shreds lemon
1 cup codfish
2 cups tomatoes
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
Paprika
Salt if necessary
Put milk in double boiler. Parboil codfish and add to milk. Scald
20 minutes and strain off fish. Cook seasoning and tomatoes 20
minutes. Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons flour
and add the milk. Cook until thick. Strain in tomato, add rest of
butter in small bits and some of the codfish if desired.
Mary E. Rowe, Poultney, Vt.
Syracuse University.
BAKED BEAN SOUP
2 cups cold baked beans
3 cups cold water
1 tablespoon onion
2 cups tomatoes
1 teaspoon salt
Spk. pepper
Mix the beans, water, and onion, and simmer the mixture until the
beans are soft. Add the tomato. Rub the mixture through a
strainer, adding more water or tomato to make it the right con-
sistency. Season it, heat it to the boiling point, and serve it with
toasted crackers.
Mildred Mitton, Dorchester, Mass.
Boston University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C 0 0 K B o o K
14
Fish 8 Meats
DEVILED SARDINES
(Chafing Dish)
2 tablespoons oil (drained from
1/2 tablespoon vinegar
sardines)
1 teaspoon lemon juice
3/2 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon paprika
Put the sardines in chafing dish; pour over the above mixture, and
cook, turning frequently. Serve on wafers. Serves twelve.
Selma M. Day, Toronto, Can.
University of Wisconsin.
SHRIMP WIGGLE
(Chafing Dish)
2 cans shrimps
1/2 can tomatoes
1 pint cream
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1 cup cooked rice
Butter, half size of an egg
Cook onion in butter and add tomatoes and rice; when hot add
shrimp cut in thirds. Add cream, season with salt and pepper, and
serve on crackers. Serves ten.
Harriet Kintzley Campbell, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Iowa University.
PILAFFE
(Casserole Dish)
1 cup rice
1 can Campbell's tomato soup
1 lb. Hamburg steak
Salt, pepper
Butter, size of an egg
Strips of bacon
Boil cup of rice twenty minutes; brown Hamburg steak in butter;
mix with rice; add soup, salt and pepper; lay strips of bacon on
top; bake three-quarters of an hour.
Frances Ingalls Shinn, Lawrence, Kansas.
Syracuse University.
SPICED HAM
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup vinegar
Cloves
Boil ham for four hours; remove skin; mix water, vinegar and brown
sugar and pour over ham, then place about a dozen cloves in top
of the ham and bake 1 1/2 hours.
Zula Speece, Bloomington, Illinois.
Illinois Wesleyan.
HAM LOAF
1 pound beef
6 crackers
1 pound smoked ham
3 eggs
Pepper
Grind beef, ham and crackers; add well-beaten eggs and pepper-
no salt. Form into a loaf and bake one hour.
Ruth Anne White, La Fayette, Ind.
De Pauw University.
COLEGE W O M A N S C 0 0 K B O o K
15
PRESSED CHICKEN
Boil a chicken, in as little water as possible, till the bones slip out
and the gristly portions are soft. Remove the skin, pick the meat
apart and mix the dark and white meat. Remove the fat and season
the liquor highly with salt and pepper; also with celery salt and
lemon juice, if you desire. Boil down to one cup and mix with the
meat. Butter a mold and decorate the bottom and sides with
slices of hard-boiled eggs, also with slices of tongue or ham cut
in fancy shapes. Pack the meat in and set away to cool with a
weight on the meat, and when ready to serve, dip mould in warm
water and turn out carefully. Garnish with parsley, strips of lettuce
or celery leaves and radishes or beets.
Marguerite Oatman, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
TAMALE LOAF
1 can tomatoes
1 onion
1 can corn
1 button of garlic
Salt and cayenne pepper to
1 slice butter quarter inch
taste
wide
1/2 cup salad oil
3 teaspoons Grandma Pepper
Sauce
Cook 15 minutes, then add:
1 cup sweet milk
1 1/2 cups yellow corn meal
3 eggs, well beaten
Cook altogether 15 minutes more and then add 1 cup olives (ripe).
Put in greased bread pan. Bake 1 hour. Pour a little olive oil on
top before putting in oven. May be served either hot or cold.
Alice Mundorf Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
MEAT LOAF
Two pounds round steak
1 egg
1/2 pound salt pork
1 cup milk
(Chopped together)
Juice of one lemon
2 cups bread crumbs
Salt, pepper, onion and sage
to taste
Bake slowly 3/4 to 1 hour.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
MEAT LOAF
1 pound hamburger
1 onion
1/2 pound veal
1 can tomatoes
1/2 pound pork
Salt and pepper
8 crackers
Mix all together, using the juice from the tomatoes to moisten with.
This is very good cold.
Merry Mueller Fischer, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
JELLIED VEAL LOAF
3 pounds veal
Juice of 1 lemon
2 hard cooked eggs
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon gelatine
Cook veal until tender, season and chop fine. Dissolve gelatine in
one tablespoon cold water and add seven tablespoons boiling water.
Cool and add veal and egg alternately in mold, pressing well into
corners. Add speck of cayenne pepper to meat stock and pour over
loaf hot. Slice and serve as cold meat or salad.
Kathryn Wilson, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLLEE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
20
STUFFED PORK TENDERLOIN
1 1/2 pounds pork tenderloin
1 1/2 cups fresh bread crumbs
1 tablespoon onion, chopped
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon paprika
3 tablespoons melted butter
2 tablespoons water
Mix crumbs, onion, parsley, salt, paprika, butter and water. Place
this mixture on top of the tenderloin which has been flattened out.
Now roll it up and tie with string. Place in buttered baking dish
and add one inch water. Cover with lid and bake in a moderate
oven one hour. Serves four.
Beth Round Harrington, Maquoketa, Iowa.
Northwestern University.
FLANK STEAK
Slice flank steak
Whole onions, peeled
Whole potatoes, peeled
Parboiled macaroni
1 can tomatoes
Brown flank steak in Crisco or bacon fat on top of stove (in skillet).
Then place in roasting pan; add a little water to remaining fat and
pour over meat; surround with potatoes and onions; entirely cover
with macaroni; dot top with tomatoes. Season meat and each
vegetable separately. Roast in oven 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
Beth Menker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
VEAL BIRDS
One pound veal steak. Cut each piece about four inches square.
Fill with dressing and fasten the meat with two toothpicks to
resemble the legs of a bird. Cloves may be used for eyes when
served. Bake in oven for about one hour.
PIGS IN BLANKET
Substitute round steak wound with bacon in above recipe. Cover
with 1/2 cup boiling water and let simmer.
Grace Johnson, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
APPLES ON PORK CHOPS
6 pork chops
3 tablespoons flour
1/4 teaspoon sage
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups cold water
3 tart apples
1/2 cup raisins
1/4 cup brown sugar
1 tablespoon vinegar
Sprinkle the chops with sage and salt and brown them in the frying
pan. Remove to a shallow baking dish. On each place one-half an
apple, pared, cored and filled with brown sugar. Into the fat in
the frying pan put the flour and salt, and when slightly browned
add the water. Bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly, and
add vinegar and raisins. Pour over the chops and bake until apples
are tender.
J. C. McRuer, Toronto, Canada.
University of Toronto.
TURKEY DRESSING
One quart chestnuts put in hot water and boiled until skins are
soft; drain and skin; boil in water until soft; put them through
food chopper and season with:
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon parsley
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon ham, chopped
1/4 teaspoon pepper
Giblets, if you wish
1
teaspoon grated lemon rind 2 tablespoons bread crumbs
2 well-beaten eggs
The above is sufficient for a large turkey.
Selma M. Day, Toronto, Canada.
University of Wisconsin.
CLGE W o M A N S
C
o
o
K
B o o K
21
CHOP SUEY
2 lbs. lean pork, diced
3 tablespoons sorghum molasses
2 cups diced celery
1 cup water or meat stock
1 cup diced onions
1/4 cup chop suey sauce
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons butter
Brown meat in butter quickly; then add celery and onions. Stir
easily for two or three minutes; add molasses, chop suey sauce and
water. Simmer slowly for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Just before
removing from fire add paste made of the flour and water. Mush-
rooms may be added if desired. Serve with rice cooked Southern
style.
Esther Weir, Urbana, III.
University of Illinois.
CHICKEN CHOP SUEY
1 quart diced cooked chicken
3 tablespoons flour
1/4 cup chopped salt pork
3 tablespoons water
1 pt. water or chicken stock
1 tablespoon Chinese sauce
1 onion, chopped
1/2 cup mushrooms
2 cups celery, cut up
If available, 1/2 cup Chinese
1/2 tablespoon salt
water chestnuts and 1 cup
2 tablespoons molasses
bamboo sprouts
Cook meat in the pork fat till brown; add water, onion, celery, salt
and molasses. Simmer 1 hour. Mix flour and water and add to
mixture to thicken. Then add molasses, Chinese sauce and mush-
rooms. Cook 10 minutes.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
University of Wisconsin.
MOCK CHOP SUEY
1 pound beef, cut in small pieces
1/4 pound pork cut in
1 tablespoon butter
small pieces
Brown thoroughly in frying pan; then cover with water and simmer
for 25 minutes; then add:
1 cup chopped celery
1 teaspoon molasses
3 or 4 onions, sliced
1 cup mushrooms
Season and baste. Cook all for 20 minutes longer. Serve with
boiled rice.
Clara Haubold, Gary, III.
Northwestern University.
CHOW MIEN
Cook thoroughly 1 lb. noodles. To this add:
1 lb. bamboo shoots
1 lb. ham, cut in small
1/2 lb. bean sprouts
pieces
1 lb. mushrooms, cut in small 8 eggs, fried on both
pieces
sides and sliced.
Season with 1 cup of Soy Bean Sauce. Mix altogether with the
noodles in an iron fry pan and fry well in peanut oil, or any other
oil if the peanut oil cannot be obtained. This amount will serve 12
people.
Marguerite Oatman, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
SHRIMP A LA CREOLE
Fry a large onion in butter. Add one can shrimps cut fine. Stir two
or three minutes. Add one cup cooked rice. Mix well. Serve with
chili sauce on top.
Charlotte Dines, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
C O L L E G E W O M A N S C 0 0 K B O O K
22
CHOP SUEY
1/2 pound fresh pork shoul-
1/2 pound veal, cut in small
der, cut in small cubes
cubes
Put one tablespoon butter in frying pan and add one-half cup
chopped onions and two cups chopped celery. Let this brown
thoroughly. Then push to one side and brown meat. Add two
tablespoons molasses, two tablespoons chop suey sauce, or one of
Worchestershire sauce and one teaspoon salt, Cook ten minutes.
Then add one-half cup water and let simmer. If it gets too thick
add more water. Thicken with one tablespoon flour.
Chopped mushrooms may be added.
Serve with rice. Serves five people.
Vesta Blodgett Simpson, Winnetka, Ill.
Northwestern University.
TAMALE PIE
3/4 pound ground ham
1 small can tomatoes
burger steak
1 onion
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 cup cornmeal
4 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
Cut onion into small pieces and fry. Add the hamburger. After
the meat has been well-fried add the tomatoes and chili powder
and cook about five minutes. Make a cornmeal mush and cook
about fifteen minutes. Put a quarter of an inch of mush in a well-
greased baking dish, add a layer of hamburger and tomatoes, then
a layer of mush, alternating until the top layer is mush. Bake in
the oven for twenty minutes. Serves six.
Dorothy Meyer, Columbia, Mo.
University of Missouri.
BAKED FISH
Clean fresh fish thoroughly; roll in flour; lay in greased pan and
season inside and out with salt, pepper, and dots of butter.
Make dressing of one quart bread crumbs, one teaspoon salt, pepper
and sage to taste, two hard-boiled eggs sliced, one finely sliced potato,
one finely minced onion, and water enough to mix together.
Lay the dressing around the fish in spoonfuls and add boiling water
enough to cook. Bake in moderate oven one hour.
Helen Bowman, Oran, Mo.
University of Missouri.
VEAL AND TOMATO
2 pounds veal steak
1 can tomatoes
Place veal in baking dish; cover with tomatoes, season with butter,
salt and pepper; and cover top with buttered bread crumbs. Bake
one and one-half hours.
Kathryn Wilson, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CRAB TOAST
2 tablespoons butter
1 pint crab meat
1 tablespoon flour
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon mustard, salt,
1 hard cooked egg
pepper
3/4 cup milk
Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk and seasonings in double
boiler. Add lemon juice, diced egg and crab meat. Mix well and
serve on toast.
Muriel Durgin, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
23
WELSH RAREBIT
1/4 pound cheese (grated)
Cayenne
1/4 cup milk or cream
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon mustard
2 teaspoons butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
Put cheese, milk into a double boiler. Mix mustard, salt, and
cayenne; add egg and beat well. When cheese is melted, stir in
egg mixture and butter and cook until it thickens.
Serve on hot toast.
Sidonie Sewald Larrance, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
TOMATO RAREBIT
1/2 cup tomato pulp
2 tablespoons flour
Pinch soda
1/2 cup grated cheese
1/2 cup milk
4 slices toast
Heat tomato pulp, add soda, then milk. When hot, thicken with
flour to which enough cold water has been added to make a smooth
paste. Add grated cheese and stir until smooth. Serve on toast.
The flavor may be varied by cooking a little onion and green pepper
with the tomatoes before putting through the sieve.
Ethel Frank Holcombe, Chesterton, Ind.
De Pauw University.
SARDINE RAREBIT
2 tablespoons butter (melted)
2 teaspoons mustard
1/4 teaspoon paprika
teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
6 sardines well boned and
1 cup mild cheese
cut up
Melt butter, add two teaspoons mustard; paprika, and salt and
blend well. Add one cup milk (or half milk and half cream) and
cook for two minutes, stirring well; add cheese cut up, stir well,
then add sardines (cut up) and serve hot on buttered toast.
Grace Phillips, Elgin, Ill.
University of Illinois.
OYSTER RAREBIT
1 cup oysters
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 pound milk cheese cut in
2 eggs
small pieces
Few grains of cayenne
Melt butter, add cheese and seasoning. As cheese melts, add
gradually oyster liquid and eggs (slightly beaten). When mixture
is smooth, add soft part of oysters from which tough muscle has
been removed. Serve hot on toast.
Sadie MacDowell, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
CHEESE SOUFFLE
2 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup scalded milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
Sprinkle cayenne
1/4 cup grated cheese (Amer-
Yolks 3 eggs
ican)
Whites 3 eggs
Melt butter, add flour, mix well. Scald milk gradually and add
cheese and seasonings. Remove from fire. Add well beaten egg
yolks. Cool mixture before folding in stiffly beaten egg whites.
Turn into buttered baking dish, place in a pan of warm water and
bake in moderate oven until firm.
Elizabeth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o O K
27
DRIED BEEF RAREBIT
1 cup chipped dried beef
3/4 cup tomatoes
1/2 cup grated or chopped
4 eggs
cheese
2 tablespoons butter
Melt butter in frying pan, add chipped beef and allow to crisp.
Pour in tomatoes and heat thoroughly, add cheese and stir until
melted. Break eggs into mixture and stir until thick. Serve hot
on crisp crackers.
Gladys Parks Dennis, Versailles, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
SAVORY TOAST
2 cups canned tomatoes
1/2 onion, sliced
1 cup water
3 tablespoons flour
2 cloves
1/2 teaspoon mustard
3 allspice berries
2 teaspoons salt
3 peppercorns
Dash cayenne pepper
2 sprays parsley
1/4 pound cheese
2 tablespoons fat
1 egg
8 slices toast
In a covered saucepan simmer the tomatoes in water, cloves, all-
spice, berries, peppercorn, and parsley for at least fifteen minutes.
Brown the onion in the fat, and add the flour, mustard, salt, and
cayenne which have been previously mixed. Mix well before adding
the tomatoes. As soon as the mixture reaches the boiling point,
strain and stir while adding the cheese, until the latter is perfectly
blended. Beat the egg, add a part of the hot tomato mixture and
mix thoroughly; repeat until all the tomato has been used. Stir
and cook over hot water till egg thickens mixture. Serve on toast
at once.
Ruth Anne White, La Fayette, Ind.
De Pauw University.
RICE OMELET WITH PEAS
2 eggs
1 tablespoon fat
1 cup cooked rice
1 cup peas (at least)
Heat and season peas with salt, pepper and a teaspoon of sugar.
Beat whites and yolks well, separately. Mix the rice with half a
teaspoon of salt through the yolks, then fold in whites.
Melt fat in a hot omelet pan. Cook in moderate oven till egg is
done. Score through center and fold and pour hot peas around it.
Marie Bellinghausen, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHEESE BALLS
1 cup mild creamy cheese
1/2 cup bread crumbs
1 egg
Pepper Dash salt
To cheese add bread crumbs, salt, pepper and the well beaten egg.
Mix well and roll into small balls.
Roll these in fine cracker crumbs
and just before serving place in a wire basket and fry in deep fat
till they are a delicate brown. Serve with salads.
Birdie Bruns, Dayton, Ohio.
De Pauw University.
HOT CHEESE CAKES
1
pound grated cheese 1 heaping teaspoon baking
(sharp American)
powder
2 egg whites (stiffly beaten)
1 cup cream
Paprika
Worcestershire sauce if liked
Beat all together and spread on slices of bread. Place on broiler
and toast a light brown. Serve very hot.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S B o o K
28
FOAMY OMELET
2 eggs
1 tablespoon milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon butter
Beat egg yolks until light; add seasonings and milk. Beat whites
very stiff and cut into yolks. Put into buttered pan and cook over
low flame. Do not remove cover from dish during first five min-
utes of cooking or omelet will be heavy. When set, remove lid and
put in hot oven to brown top. Serve at once.
Viola Michel, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
SWISS EGGS
6 eggs
1 onion, cut in small pieces
1 cup tomato soup
1 green pepper, cut fine
or canned tomatoes
(Thyme, savory, salt, to
taste)
Warm tomatoes, onion, pepper, herbs in pan. Beat eggs and fold
in mixture. Will serve four or five people. Bake in moderate oven.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wisconsin University.
EGG CHOPS
4 eggs
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon butter
Salt
2 tablespoons flour
Pepper
Onion juice
Hard cook four eggs. Make a thick white sauce of the other in-
gredients; add the eggs, chopped up. Shape into eight patties with
the hands, set in ice box to stand for several hours. Then fry in
deep fat, or saute in lard or butter.
Add one cup of cold cooked macaroni cut small to make it go farther
when eggs are scarce.
Margaret Chase Schmidt, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CREAMED CELERY IN CHEESE SHELL
3 cups cooked celery
1/2 cup cracker crumbs
1 pint white sauce
2 tablespoons melted butter
Cut the cleaned celery stalks in pieces, one inch long, and let cook
in boiling water to cover until tender. For three cups of pieces,
make one pint of white sauce, using the water in which the celery
was cooked, with cream as the liquid. Turn into the shell of an
Edam cheese, cover the top with cracker crumbs mixed with melted
butter and let brown in the oven. Serve a light scraping of cheese
with each serving of celery.
Barbard Wentch, Ames, Iowa.
Iowa State College.
CHEESE AND CORN SOUFFLE
2 cups scalded milk
2 tablespoons chopped
1 cup boiled corn
green pepper
1 cup stale bread crumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cheese, grated
3 eggs
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon catsup
Mix first seven ingredients and catsup; add well-beaten yolks of
eggs, fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake in well greased baking dish
for twenty minutes in moderate oven. Serve at once.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wisconsin University.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B O o K
29
Vegetables
CANDIED SWEET POTATOES
6 medium sized sweet potatoes
4 tablespoons butter
2 large sour apples
Salt
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup water
Parboil, peel and cut the potatoes into slices. Cover the bottom of a
buttered baking dish with a layer of sliced potatoes. Sprinkle with
brown sugar and dot with pieces of butter and a few grains of salt.
Add a layer of thinly sliced pealed apple. Alternate potatoes and
apples, adding butter and sugar until materials are used. Add water.
Cook in oven until apples are mushy. (Serves six.)
Mildred Newman Neasmith, Buffalo, N. Y.
Syracuse University
MARSHMALLOW SWEET POTATO
Boil sweet potatoes, peel, mash; add seasoning and butter. Put in
buttered baking dish; cover top with marshmallows and place in
oven until marshmallows are melted; then put under flame and
brown.
Charlotte Dines, Evanston, Ill.
Norhwesern University.
CORN FRITTERS
1 egg beaten light
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup corn
1/2 teaspoon baking
Salt and pepper to taste
powder
Add
corn to egg; sift together flour and baking powder and add to
corn mixture fry in deep fat.
Mary Jane Weir Colmey, Kirkwood, Mo.
University of Illinois.
EGGPLANT FRITTERS
Wash a medium sized eggplant and cook in salted water until soft.
Make a fritter batter of
1 1/3 cups flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
2/3 cup milk
1 egg
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually and egg well-
beaten. Mash eggplant and remove large pieces of skin. Add warm
eggplant to batter and beat mixture until thoroughly mixed. Fry
either in deep fat or in a large amount of fat in a frying pan.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, III.
University of Wisconsin.
STUFFED EGGPLANT
(Southern Style)
1 eggplant
1 egg, beaten
1 small onion, chopped fine
1 tablespoon butter
2 or 3 tablespoons bread crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
Scoop out eggplant and soak in salt water one hour. Pour off water
and parboil 1/2 hour. Mix with egg, butter, salt, onion and bread
crumbs and refill shell. Bake in pan with a little water 30 to 40
minutes.
Elizabeth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, III.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
30
BAKED ASPARAGUS
1 bunch fresh asparagus
1/3 teaspoon pepper
1 cup soft bread crumbs
2 tablespoons butter
1/3 cup dried buttered crumbs
2 tablespoons flour
2 cups milk
4 hard cooked eggs
1/4 cup grated cheese
1 teaspoon salt
Boil or steam asparagus until tender; drain and cut in 1-inch pieces.
Make a sauce of butter, flour, milk, seasonings and crumbs. Put a
layer of asparagus in bottom of casserole; add sauce and hard
cooked eggs, chopped. Repeat until dish is filled. Sprinkle with
dried buttered crumbs, mixed with the cheese. Bake about 20
minutes in moderate oven.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
CREOLE SPAGHETTI
1 large pkg. Red Cross Spaghetti
1/4 cup melted butter
Boil together 2 onions, 1 lb.
1 can tomatoes
chopped beef
Salt and paprika
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
Cook 3/4 of an hour; last five minutes add 1 large can mushrooms if
desired. Mix with spaghetti. Put on platter. Sprinkle with cheese.
Put in oven till cheese is melted. Serves eight.
Ella Brown, Evanston, Illinois.
Northwestern University.
MACARONI CROQUETTES
4 tablespoons grated cheese 1/2 cup chopped ham
2 cups boiled macaroni (chop)
Mix with sauce. Pour on buttered platter and let cool several
hours. Cut into squares and fry in deep fat.
Sauce
1 teaspoon butter
1 teaspoon flour
1/3 cup sweet milk
Cook until thick and season. (Serves four.)
Frances Morris, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH
TOMATO SAUCE
1 package of macaroni or
1/4 pound of bacon (cut fine)
spaghetti
1 onion (cut fine)
1 green pepper (cut fine)
1 small can of tomatoes
Pinch of sugar
Salt and pepper to taste
1 tablespoon flour
1 tablespoon butter
Cook macaroni or spaghetti in rapidly boiling salted water until
tender; drain, rinse in cold water and drain again. In another pan
fry the finely cut bacon; add the onions and green pepper and fry
again. Add the tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste, and sugar to
this mixture and let come to a boil. When boiling add to it a gravy
made of the flour, butter and sufficient water to make it smooth.
Pour this mixture made in the frying pan over the macaroni or
spaghetti. (Serves eight.)
Myrtle Meyer, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
SPANISH RICE
Fry several minutes in casserole two tablespoons rice, one onion
sliced and two tablespoons butter. Add one pint of tomatoes and
one green pepper and season. Bake until rice is soft.
Virginia Stevenson Mershon, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Syracuse University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
31
MACARONI LOAF
1 cup hot milk, over
1 cup bread crumbs
1 cup cooked macaroni cut
1 cup grated cheese
fine (or Creamettes)
1 green pepper cut fine or
Little onion juice
put through grinder
Salt
3 well beaten eggs
Bake in a pan set in another pan of hot water, as for custards. Pimen-
toes and parsley may be added if desired. Serve with tomato
sauce or mushroom sauce.
Eliza Dickey Manning, Wayzata, Minn.
University of Minnesota,
STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS
10 good sized peppers with
2 large ears of corn
tops cut off
1 onion
4 medium-sized tomatoes
Handful of bread crumbs (or
1 green pepper
more according tomois-
1 tablespoon butter
ture)
Season to suit taste with pepper and salt
Chop the onions, tomatoes and pepper fine. Add 1/3 pound of
Hamburg steak (or leftover roast) to the chopped ingredients and
mix all together. Make about the consistency of turkey dressing.
Serve with tomato sauce, grated cheese, and ripe olives.
Alice M. Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
VEGETABLE LOAF (LEFTOVERS)
Essentials
1 cup cooked tomatoes
1 egg
1 teaspoon each salt and sage
1 cup uncooked sausage (14
And onion if desired
pound)
Add any other leftovers you happen to have, such as cooked pota-
toes, carrots, peas, beans or moistened stale bread. Enough to fill
a loaf tin. Bake about one hour.
Vesta B. Simpson, Winnetka, III.
Northwestern University.
BOSTON ROAST
Cook two cups dry kidney beans until tender, or use one can of
kidney beans. Chop beans, add one cup bread crumbs, two cups
grated cheese, one tablespoon onion. Salt to taste. Bake with slices
of bacon on top of loaf until firm. Baste occasionally with hot
water and fat. Serve with tomato sauce.
TOMATO SAUCE
Heat one can tomatoes and one teaspoon minced onion. Rub
through sieve. Melt one tablespoon fat, add two tablespoons flour
and seasoning of one teaspoon salt and pepper. Add tomato, cook
ten minutes.
Eleanor Svoboda, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
CREAMED CAULIFLOWER WITH HAM
1 head of cauliflower
3 well beaten eggs
2 cups of white sauce
3/4 cup of finely chopped
cooked ham
Trim the cauliflower and boil it in boiling salted water until it is
tender; drain and rub through a sieve. Add the eggs and one cup-
ful of the white sauce to the cauliflower and pour the mixture into
a buttered mold. Bake until firm. Turn out on a hot, flat dish,
cover with remainder of the sauce and sprinkle over with the ham.
Louise Brownell, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
32
BEANS A LA TOMATO
1 pint navy beans
1 tablespoon' sugar
1 pint tomatoes
1 onion
1 cup cream
Salt
Pepper
Pour off most of the water after cooking beans. Add other ingre-
dients, salt and pepper to taste. Cook all together till onion is
tender. Brown in oven. (Serves six.)
Vesta Knott Larrimore, Tipton, Ind.
De Pauw University.
GREEN STRING BEANS
(A LA SOUTHERN)
String, snap and wash beans. Put beans in kettle, salt, cover with
water and strips of bacon. Add three or four medium sized onions
and boil for two hours, or until beans are very tender. Beans are
best when cooked very slow but need to be watched carefully.
Marion Spangler, Bradford, Pa.
Allegheny College.
CORN TAMALE
1 can corn
1/2 can tomatoes
1 cup yellow cornmeal
1 teaspoon Grandma's pep-
1 bottle stuffed olives
pers (spice)
1 cup milk
1 clove garlic
Salt to taste
Mix and bake one hour in moderate oven.
Rita Benedict, Lodi, Calif.
University of California.
SQUASH MASH
Beat two or three eggs. Stir into eggs, one cup grated cheese, a little
garlic, parsley, and green pepper chopped fine. Add a slice of soaked
bread, a little sweet marjoram, one tablespoon olive oil, and salt.
To this add squash after it has been boiled tender. Bake in drip-
ping pan until brown.
A good way to serve the leftover vegetables.
Alice M. Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
VEGETABLE CHOP SUEY
1 cup spaghetti
1 can tomatoes
1 large onion
1/2 cup celery
1/2 cup meat-fresh or left-overs
Boil spaghetti in salted water until tender. Drain and rinse with
cold water. Add to remainder of mixture, which has been prepared
in meantime. Put in buttered baking dish and bake one-half hour.
Stuffed olives are a good addition. (Serves four.)
Winifred Montgomery, Marseilles, III.
University of Illinois.
FRIED TOMATOES
Wash and cut in half six ripe unpeeled tomatoes. Place in frying
pan, cut-side up. Season each tomato with 1/2 teaspoonful sugar and
salt and pepper. Put a little water in bottom of pan and boil slowly
until tomatoes are tender. Then remove tomatoes to a platter and
boil down juice until brown. Add four level tablespoons butter,
four level tablespoons flour, and two cups of milk. Make like cream
sauce, and pour over tomatoes and serve.
Margaret Dow, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o O K B O o K
33
Salads E Dressings
GOOD SALAD TO SERVE WITH BAKED FISH
2 oranges (cut into small sections)
1/2 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup boiled salad dressing
Josephine Eddy, Evanston, III.
Michigan Agriculture College.
TUNA FISH SALAD
Six or eight potatoes diced, one can tuna fish, one cup chopped
celery, add little cucumber, three tablespoons chopped green pepper
or parsley, moisten with mayonnaise. Season to taste. Serve on
cup shaped leaves of lettuce. Garnish with radish roses.
Ethel Krauter Bell, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
TOMATO TUNA FISH SALAD
1 envelope gelatine, soaked in 1/2 cup cold water
2 tablespoons vinegar
Pint can tomatoes
Salt tomatoes and boil for ten minutes. Add gelatine and vinegar.
When dissolved strain. When chilled enough that it begins to set,
add small can of Tuna fish, flaked. Mix thoroughly and pour into
mold dipped in cold water. Serve on lettuce with salad dressing.
Ruth M. Bielby, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
SALMON SALAD
1 can salmon
1/2 cup celery
1/2 cup olives
1/2 tablespoons onion juice
3 hard cooked eggs
1/2 cup English walnuts
Use
a
cooked dressing. Mix everything just before adding salmon.
Do this by tossing the materials with a fork. Be careful that pieces
of salmon are not too fine or mushy. Serve on lettuce leaves.
Jessie Richman, Villa Grove, III.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
MOULDED SALMON SALAD
1 can or 1 cup salmon
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup milk
1/2 tablespoon mustard
1/4 cup vinegar
Cayenne
1 1/2 tablespoons gelatine
1/4 cup cold water
Make soft custard of milk, eggs, dry ingredients and vinegar.
Soften gelatine in cold water and dissolve in custard. Add salmon.
Mould, chill and serve with mayonnaise.
Irene Madill, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
CRAB SALAD LOAF
1 cup crab meat
1 cup whipping cream
1 cup cabbage
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1 cup celery
1 tablespoon gelatine
Cut
up crab meat into small pieces. Chop celery and cabbage.
Whip the cream and add the mayonnaise and gelatine which has
been dissolved over hot water. Combine with celery, cabbage and
crab. Place in wet mold and chill thoroughly. Serve on lettuce
leaves.
Margaret Stout Keeley, Tillamook, Ore.
University of Minnesota.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
38
SALMON LOAF WITH CUCUMBER SAUCE
(Excellent Summer Dish)
Soak 3/4 tablespoon gelatine in 2 tablespoons cold water and stir
this into 2 tall cans of salmon-flaked Make the following boiled
dressing and stir into the above and then pour into loaf tin to set:
1 tablespoon sugar
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
Yolks of 2 raw eggs
2 tablespoons flour
1/4 cup vinegar
1 teaspoon dry mustard
Dash of paprika
CUCUMBER SAUCE
Whip 1 bottle cream, add salt and paprika Gradually stir in 2
tablespoons vinegar and 1/2 cucumber which has been diced and
drained.
Margaret Chase Schmidt, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CRAB SALAD
Remove meat from two fresh crabs leaving pieces as large as possible.
For dressing take one cup of mayonnaise to which add:
1/4 cup of catsup
1/4 teaspoon prepared mus-
1/2 cup minced celery
tard
1/4 cup minced green peppers
1/4 teaspoon horseradish
Mix well and pour over crab meat. Garnish with fresh tomatoes
and hard cooked eggs.
Leah Kahn, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
SHRIMP SALAD
Prepare shrimps by cutting into small pieces. Add one-half cup
cold peas, one-half cup celery cut fine. Mix well with mayonnaise
and serve on lettuce.
Mabel Osborne, Pasadena, Calif.
University of Southern California.
TOMATO SALAD
1 pint canned tomatoes
1 large tablespoon gelatine
Salt and red pepper
1/2 cup finely chopped cel-
1 cup chopped white grapes
ery
and nutmeats
1 green pepper, shredded
Stew and strain tomatoes. Season with salt and red pepper. Add
other ingredients and mold. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise
dressing.
Thorborg Swenson, Rockford, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
SHAMROCK SALAD
(Six Servings)
3 green peppers
6 stuffed olives
1 cup cream cheese
Lettuce
Stuff well washed and scraped peppers with cheese seasoned and
mixed with chopped olives. Chill one hour. Cut in slices, serving
three or four on each leaf of lettuce.
Ruth Kennish, Kewanee, Ill.
Iowa State College.
BEET AND CELERY SALAD
Boil and pickle four medium sized beets. Clean one large bunch of
celery. Dice beets and celery together. Mix with salad dressing.
Serve on lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with nuts. Serves six.
Edith V. Grupe, Buffalo, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o O K B o o K
39
JEWEL SALAD
1/2 envelope gelatine, soaked in 1/4 cup cold water.
Pare, chop and drain cucumber. There should be 1/2 cup. Chop
and drain 1/2 cup pineapple. Add gelatine, dissolved in 1/4 cup
boiling water. Then add following ingredients:
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
1/4 cup vinegar
(may be omitted)
2/3 cup pineapple syrup
1 tablespoon lemon juice
Few grains salt
Turn into individual molds, dipped in cold water. Chill. Serve on
lettuce leaf with salad dressing.
Edith Crounse Kolb, Bethlehem, Pa.
Syracuse University.
ARGYLE SALAD
(Apricot)
Dressing:
4 egg yolks beaten
1 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons vinegar
1 teaspoon mustard
1 teaspoon butter
1 tablespoon sugar
Little red pepper
Mix together in double boiler and cook for five minutes after it
begins to thicken. Stir constantly. When cool add one cup whipped
cream, twelve marshmallows cut fine and one-half cup cut pecans.
Drain one can of apricots. Arrange halves on lettuce leaves and
serve with above dressing. This serves eight.
Bernice Woehler Taylor, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
BLACK CHERRY SALAD
1 can black cherries
Small quantity of blanched
Small bottle pimento stuffed
almonds
olives
2 boxes lemon jello.
Take juice from cherries, add enough water to make a quart of
liquid. Bring this to boiling point and dissolve jello in it. Cool,
add pitted cherries, olives sliced in thin slices and the half almonds.
Pour in shallow pan and when cold cut in squares and serve on
lettuce with salad dressing.
Patra M. Houg, Princeton, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
PRUNE SALAD
Large prunes
Chopped nuts
Creamed cheese
Lettuce
Mayonnaise or oil dressing
Stuff prunes with creamed cheese and nuts. Serve in lettuce nests
with desired dressing.
Gladys Becker Murphy, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
FROZEN SALAD
3/4 pound green grapes
1 teaspoon Knox gelatine
1/4 pound English walnuts
1 tablespoon sugar
1/3 pound almonds
1/2 pint maraschino cherries
1 cup salad dressing
1 piece orange peel to taste
Method: Cut fine the seeded grapes, cherries and nut meats.
Grind oranges and a small piece of citron. Dissolve gelatine; whip
cream and add to salad dressing and fruit mixture. Put in mould.
Let it stand four hours. (Put piece of oil paper in mould as it helps
to get it out.)
Helen G. Burgert, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Coe College.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B O O K
42
CHERRY SALAD
1 package lemon jello
1 cup chopped celery
1 quart can red cherries
Small bottle pimento olives
1/2 cup broken black walnuts
Mix one pint heated cherry juice with the jello (or cherry juice and
water); when beginning to harden add two cups strained cherries,
walnuts, one cup celery and pimento olives sliced. Put in indi-
vidual molds. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise and whipped
cream on top.
Margaret Middlekauf, Chicago, III.
University of Wisconsin.
NIPPY SALAD
1 package lemon jello
1 stalk celery
2 dill pickles
1/2 cup English walnut meats
1 apple
1/2 pint mayonnaise
Cut
jello in squares, place on a lettuce leaf on a salad plate. Cut
up pickles, apple and celery. Mix together and put a couple of
teaspoonfuls around the jello. Put on mayonnaise and sprinkle
nut meats on the top.
Florence Chestnutt, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
SALAD
Slice top from large red apple and scoop out the pulp. Mix with
finely chopped celery, broken walnut meats, and mayonnaise made
without mustard. Fill apple shells, put on lids, serve on lettuce
leaves.
Leonore Berlin, Coudersport, Pa.
Allegheny College.
DATE SALAD
1 pound dates
1 cup chopped apples
3 oranges
1 cup chopped celery
1 head lettuce
Fruit salad dressing
Clean and stone dates, cut in thin strips; mix apples, celery and
half dates with dressing, place the sliced orange on shredded lettuce,
spread evenly with apple and celery mixture, continue until all is
used, and top with dressing, and garnish with the rest of the dates.
Margaret Brainard, Brookline, Mass.
Boston University.
PINEAPPLE SALAD
1 can sliced pineapple
English walnuts
Dates
Maraschino cherries
Whipped cream
Put lettuce on plate, then a slice of pineapple, three dates which
have been stuffed with walnut meats and rolled in powdered sugar.
Cover with whipped cream and put a cherry on top.
Ruth Palmer, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
FLUFFY SALAD
Cabbage
3 dozen marshmallows
2 cups shredded pineapple
1/2 pint of whipped cream
6 tablespoons mayonnaise
Salt six cups of shredded cabbage to taste, add two cups of shredded
pineapple. Stir in the whipped cream to which the mayonnaise has
been added.
Aloha Mehl Carlin, Goshen, Ind.
De Pauw University.
C O L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
43
BUTTERFLY SALAD
Take one slice of pineapple cut in half, lay on lettuce leaf so the two
rounded sides meet in middle. Take a seeded date and use for
body and broken Trilby sticks or orange peel for feelers. Put
sliced stuffed olive on each corner of wings. Put a spoonful of
salad dressing between feelers for the honey.
Florence Brownell De Yarman, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
TWENTY-FOUR HOUR SALAD
1 large can sliced pineapple
Yolks of 4 eggs
1/2 pound marshmallows
1/2 pint cream
1 pound almonds (in shell)
1/2 pint whipping cream
blanched
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons of sugar
Place over fire in a double boiler one-half pint of ordinary cream.
When partially heated, add the well beaten yolks of four eggs,
pinch of salt and two tablespoons of sugar. When thick, remove
from fire and set aside to cool.
While this custard is cooling, drain the juice from the pineapple and
cut the fruit into long slices. To the cut up pineapple add the cut
almonds and marshmallows (each cut in six pieces).
Fold pineapple, almonds and marshmallows together with a fork.
Then pour over this mixture the cold custard. When thoroughly
mixed, fold in one-half pint of whipped cream.
A tablespoon of lemon may be added if you prefer.
Set in a cool place until the next day, or you can make it in the morn-
ing and put it in the ice-box until evening.
This serves from twelve to fifteen persons.
Clotilde Paulson Walstad, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
CANDLE SALAD
Place a slice of pineapple on a nest of lettuce leaves. Slice a banana
into four parts lengthwise, and stick one section upright in the
hole in the center of each piece of pineapple. Shake a spoonful of
mayonnaise and whipped cream mixed over the top of the banana
to represent the wax of the candle running down. Then on the very
top place a maraschino cherry for the light.
Doris Dyer, Portland, Me.
Boston University.
CRANBERRY SALAD
2 cups cranberries
2 cups sugar
Cook five minutes
Dissolve one package lemon jello in 1/4 cup boiling water. Pour
together the cooked cranberry and jello. Add one cup chopped
celery; nuts. Cool and serve with salad dressing.
Helen G. Burgert, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
CALIFORNIA FRUIT SALAD
2 large slices of pineapple
1/2 can wax cherries
3 halves of pears
3/4 pound marshmallows
3 halves of peaches
1/2 pint maraschino cherries
1 orange
1 head lettuce
1 grapefruit
1 pint whipped cream
Dice pineapple, pears, peaches, orange, grapefruit, and wax cher-
ries and mix thoroughly. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with
whipped cream, maraschino cherries and marshmallows. Color
scheme is red, buff and green and makes an attractive salad.
Margaret Calder Leib, Baltimore, Md.
Goucher College.
C L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
44
CANTALOUPE SALAD, A LA MEXICAN STYLE
2 cantaloupes
1/2 saltspoon cinnamon
Salt
1 pint double cream
Paprika
1 teaspoonful gelatine
1/4 cup bread crumbs
Cut the edible portions of the cantaloupes into small pieces. Sprinkle
with seasonings. Add the cream beaten very stiff, to which the
dissolved gelatine has been added. Beat well until thoroughly mixed.
When it begins to set turn into melon mold, which has been wet in
cold water. Bury in ice and salt for at least two hours. When ready
to serve wipe the mold with a cloth wet in cold water, and turn on
a bed of lettuce, surrounded with a very delicate, pink mayonnaise.
Emily M. Brown, Honesdale, Pa.
Syracuse University.
ORANGE PEANUT SALAD
1 banana
1/2 cup peanuts
2 oranges
Lettuce
French dressing
Remove skin from banana; scrape, and cut in quarters (lengthwise),
and thirds (crosswise), and roll in peanuts, finely chopped. Pare
oranges, cut in slices (crosswise); stamp out center, and insert a
piece of banana through each slice. Arrange on bed of lettuce,
and serve with French dressing.
Gladys Duvall, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
MAYONNAISE DRESSING
1 teaspoon mustard
Yolks of 2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon powdered sugar
2 tablespoons vinegar
Sprinkle of cayenne pepper
1 1/2 cups olive oil
or paprika
Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks and when well mixed, add 1/2 tea-
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually (drop by drop), beating constantly.
As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. Add oil and
vinegar alternately, until all is used, beating constantly.
Note: Dressing will separate if oil is added too rapidly. A smooth
consistency may be restored by taking another egg yolk and slowly
adding curdled mixture to it or by adding the curdled mixture very
slowly to ice water (one teaspoon to one tablespoon-depending on
degree of separation of dressing). Any salad oil may be substituted
for olive oil.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING
2 egg yolks
2 blades chives or a little
1 pint salad or olive oil
onion juice
Small bottle olives
Vinegar
2 canned red pimentos
Salt
2 hard boiled eggs
Paprika
Put egg yolks in bowl and beat with either fork or egg beater. Then
add oil a few drops at a time beating constantly. When all the oil
is used this mixture should be very thick. Then add vinegar to the
consistency of whipped cream. Add salt and paprika to taste.
Then add other ingredients-olives, pimentos, eggs and chives,
all chopped very fine.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E WOANS C 0 0 0 B o o K
45
POPULAR "COOKED" MAYONNAISE
Make a white sauce of one cupful water, 1/3 cupful flour, one table-
spoonful salad oil. Cook thoroughly (about thirty minutes) in a
double boiler. Place in a bowl
1 egg or 2 egg yolks
1 teaspoonful mustard
1 teaspoonful salt
1/8 teaspoonful paprika
Mix the seasonings thoroughly with the egg yolks. Add 1/4 cupful
of vinegar slowly to the mixture. Pour one cupful of oil over this
mixture; do not stir. Then pour the hot white sauce over this mix-
ture. Beat with an egg beater or wire whisk for three to five min-
utes. Serve as you would the regular mayonnaise.
Note: Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls of
cider vinegar may be substituted for the 1/4 cup of vinegar.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, III.
University of Wisconsin.
EGYPTIAN SALAD DRESSING
1 cup cooked salad dressing
1 hard cooked egg, diced or
1/2 cup olive oil
sliced
1/2 cup Heinz chili sauce
Dash of paprika
2 or 3 tablespoons chopped
green peppers
Add olive oil gradually to cooked dressing; then add chili sauce,
peppers, egg and paprika. A good dressing for head lettuce and
serves from four to six persons.
Carro Buchanan Musberger, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Wisconsin.
FRENCH DRESSING
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon vinegar
1/2 teaspoon paprika
3 tablespoons olive oil
Mix ingredients and stir until well blended.
Mildred Hadley Baker, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
SALAD DRESSING (Boiled)
1 tablespoon mustard
1/4 teaspoon white pepper
4 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup vinegar
6 tablespoons sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups hot milk
Mix dry ingredients in order given, add vinegar, beaten eggs and
milk. Cook in double boiler until thick. When ready to use, thin
with cream.
Marguerite Rickert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
SALAD DRESSING
2 cups sour milk or cream
1 teaspoon mustard
4 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar to 1 cup
1 teaspoon pepper
cream
Beat eggs and cream. Cook in double boiler until thick. Remove
from fire, cool and add 1/4 cup vinegar to every cup sour cream used.
Genevieve Betts, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
ONE MINUTE SALAD DRESSING (Uncooked)
2 eggs
1 teaspoon dry mustard
1/2 cup melted butter
1 can Leder or Eagle Brand
Salt
condensed milk
1 cup vinegar
Directions: Beat eggs well, add butter, salt, mustard, milk, and then
vinegar. Beat well.
LaBeryl Smart, Detroit, Mich.
University of Michigan.
C o L L E G E W O M A N S C o o K B o o K
46
ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING
(For Salads)
6 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons vinegar or
1/2 teaspoon paprika
lemon juice
1 tablespoon finely chopped
Roquefort cheese
Stir well. or pour ingredients into a bottle, cork, and shake well.
The proportions of oil and vinegar may be reversed if desired.
Marguerite Rickert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
SWEET CREAM DRESSING
1 egg
1 tablespoon butter
6 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons of sweet milk
Juice of one-half lemon
Add sugar to egg and whip until thoroughly mixed. Add lemon juice,
butter, and sweet milk. Cook in double boiler, stir constantly until
thick. Cool. Serve with any salad.
Ruth Cook, Poplar Bluff, Mo.
University of Missouri.
PINEAPPLE SALAD DRESSING
(For Fruit Salad)
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
2 eggs
1/2 cup sugar
Pineapple juice
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 pint whipping cream
Cream butter and sugar, add flour and the beaten eggs. Heat juice
of one large can sliced pineapple and add to above mixture. Cook
until thick (about three minutes over flame-longer in double
boiler). Cool and add whipped cream.
This makes dressing enough for salad for twelve people.
Virginia Green, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
FRUIT SALAD DRESSING
1/4 cup pineapple juice
1 tablespoon flour
1/4 cup orange juice
3 tablespoons water
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1 egg
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup whipped cream
Scald fruit juices, mix sugar, flour and water to paste. Add beaten
egg, stir in juice. Cook in double boiler until thick. When ready
to use add whipped cream. Serves ten or twelve.
Helen Bayne, Bloomington, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
COLLEGE W O M A N S C00K B 00K
47
PINEAPPLE DESSERT
1 medium sized can grated
3/4 cup water
pineapple
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup nut meats
Whipped cream
4 tablespoons cornstarch
1 cake
Heat the pineapple, to which has been added the sugar and water.
Dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the water; add to the mixture
and cook till all thickens and looks clear. Allow to cool. Spread
about an inch thick on a white or yellow cake which has been baked
in two layers. Top this with stiffly whipped cream and sprinkle
with ground nuts. Cut in squares and serve.
Leila Foresman Hanson, Brook, Ind.
De Pauw University.
FUDGE PUDDING
2 ounces chocolate
teaspoon salt
1 1/2 pints milk
2 cups sugar
1 pint bread crumbs
1/2 cup dates or nuts
2 eggs
3 tablespoons butter
Heat milk, butter, chocolate and salt and pour over the crumbs.
Cool slightly and add beaten eggs. Then add sugar, or it may be
put in with milk when heated. Add fruit. Bake in buttered dish
for fifty or sixty minutes in moderate oven.
Serve with sauce:
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon flour
1 cup sweet milk
1 tablespoon butter
Vanilla
Boil for few minutes and let cool.
Edith Speckman Kern, Chicago, III.
University of Minnesota.
STEAMED DATE PUDDING
3 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 cup milk
cups flour
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 pound dates cut in small
pieces
Melt butter, add molasses and milk. Then add all the dry ingredients
which have been sifted together, and the dates. Steam for two and
one-half hours.
Golden Sauce
Put in a double boiler
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup butter
1/3 cup milk
When dissolved, beat in the yolks of two eggs. Add one teaspoon
of vanilla and beat with Dover egg beater to keep from lumping.
Serve hot with the Date Pudding.
Esther Hunter Ong, Champaign, Ill.
University of Illinois.
APRICOT SOUFFLE
6 whole apricots, cooked
1/2 cup sugar
and strained through
1/2 cup milk
siève
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons butter
4 eggs
Put butter in saucepan on stove, add milk and stir till it boils.
Add fruit, boil eight minutes. Remove from fire. Add beaten egg
yolks slowly. Fold in beaten egg whites. Pour into buttered pan
and bake in moderate oven until firm. Serve at once.
Ella Record, Cambridge, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
55
CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE
3/3 tablespoon butter
2 tablespoons sugar
3/3 tablespoon flour
2/3 tablespoon hot water
1/4 cup milk
1 egg
1/2 square bitter chocolate
Vanilla
Melt butter, add flour; while stirring add milk slowly. Cook until
boiling point is reached. Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar
and water, stir until smooth. Combine the mixture and add well
beaten yolk. Cool. Fold in stiffly beaten whites and add vanilla.
Bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. Serve with whipped
cream.
Evelyn Woodward, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
LEMON SOUFFLE
Yolks 4 eggs
1 cup sugar
Grated rind and juice 1
Whites of 4 eggs
lemon
Beat yolks until thick and lemon colored, add sugar gradually and
continue beating; add lemon rind and juice. Fold in egg whites.
Turn into buttered dish, place in pan of warm water and bake in a
moderate oven until firm. Serve with hot sauce.
Sauce
1 cup sugar
1 egg
Juice of 1/2 lemon
Beat and pour into six tablespoons hot milk. Let come to boiling
point.
Margaret Roberts Jones, Coldwater, Minn.
University of Wisconsin.
SAILOR'S DUFF
1/2 cup molasses
1 egg
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons melted butter
1 teaspoon soda in a little
1 1/2 cups flour
hot water
Beat well and add one-half cup boiling water and steam one hour.
Sauce
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 tablespoon cornstarch in cold water to make a smooth paste.
Pour over this two cups boiling water. Cook till it thickens and
flavor with vanilla.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
CARAMELIZED APPLES
Dissolve 1 tablespoon gela-
1/4
cup cream or milk
tine in 1/4 cup cold water
3/4 cup chopped walnuts
Select 6 Wine-Sap or Jona-
cup water
than apples
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup sugar
Peel and core apples, leaving them whole. Cook till tender in the
syrup made by boiling the white sugar and water ten minutes.
Cook brown sugar and milk and butter till it will form a soft ball
when tested in cold water. Remove from fire and add nuts. Place
apples in dishes ready to serve. Fill centers with nut mixture. Add
gelatine to water in which apples were cooked, and pour it around
apples.
Serve with whipped cream. Serves six.
Vera Flack, Macomb, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLL W M A N S C O K B o o K
56
REFRIGERATOR CAKE
1/2 pound unsalted butter
1 cup confectioner's sugar
Juice of 1 lemon
Juice of 1 orange
2 dozen lady fingers
2 eggs
Cream butter and sugar until fluffy; add eggs, one at a time; then
lemon and orange juice, beating constantly until very light. Line
sides and bottom of mold with split lady fingers and pour in one-half
of the mixture; cover with layer of lady fingers; pour in rest of
mixture and again cover with layer of lady fingers. Let stand in
refrigerator twenty-four hours. Before serving cover with whipped
cream. This recipe will serve twelve.
Thorborg Swenson, Rockford, III.
University of Wisconsin.
FIG AND MARSHMALLOW DESSERT
1 lb. cooking figs
Marshmallows
Whipping cream
Stew figs until tender without sugar. When soft, drain off liquid;
add one cup sugar to three cups liquid and simmer down to a rich
syrup. When ready to serve cut figs in halves, insert one-half of a
marshmallow in each portion of fig; place eight or ten of the stuffed
figs in a sherbet glass, cover with syrup and then whipped cream.
Marguerite C. Lund, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
MARSHIMALLOW PUDDING
2 cups milk
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon sugar
16 marshmallows
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla
Add cornstarch (rubbed smooth in little cold milk) to scalded
milk; cook about fifteen minutes in double boiler; remove from fire
and add sugar and beat in marshmallows. Add vanilla and fold in
egg whites. Cool.
Margaret Taylor, Kewanee, III.
Northwestern University.
DATE PUDDING
4 cups water
1 cup sugar
1 cup graham flour
1 pound dates
1 cup nuts
Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes; add graham
flour slowly, stirring constantly; add dates, ground or chopped, and
boil for fifteen minutes. Remove from fire and add nuts. Serve
cold with whipped cream or ice cream. Serves fourteen.
Faye Thornton Havens, Bloomington, III.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
PRINCESS PUDDING
Yolks of 3 eggs
1/3 cup sugar
Grated rind 1/2 lemon
2 tablespoons lemon juice
3/4 tablespoons granulated
Whites of 3 eggs
gelatine dissolved in 3 tablespoons of boiling water.
Beat egg yolks until thick and add sugar gradually; then add rind
of lemon, lemon juice and dissolved gelatine. As soon as mixture
begins to thicken, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Serve with
whipped cream. This recipe will serve six people.
Thorborg Swenson, Rockford, III.
University of Wisconsin.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o K B o o K
57
STEAMED PUDDING
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in
2 teaspoons melted butter
a little hot water
1 egg
1 1/2 cups flour, measured
1/2 cup dark molasses
after sifting
Mix together and add very slowly 1/2 cup boiling water.
Steam 3/4 of an hour.
This pudding is good after being steamed a second time.
Sauce
1 cup powdered sugar
Yolks of 2 eggs
1 cup cream
Beat eggs and sugar together. Whip cream and add a little at a
time to mixture. Flavor. Serves ten people.
Helen E. Heggie, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
PARSONS PUDDING
Combine in the following order:
1/2 cup melted butter
1 cup raisins
1 cup cold water
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in
1 cup molasses
1/4 cup cold water
3 cups flour
Steam in funnel pudding mold for three hours. Serve with sauce.
Sauce
Cream thoroughly
2/3 cup butter
1 1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon boiling water
Add yolks of three eggs. Then add slowly, creaming all the time,
the stiffly beaten egg whites. Flavor with vanilla.
Helen Gelhar, Glencoe, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ORANGE PUDDING
1 cup bread crumbs and
Yolks of 2 eggs and whites
juice and rind of 1/2
of 4
orange
1/3 cup sugar
Cover the bread crumbs with milk.
Add orange juice and rind, and
beaten yolks of two eggs.
Beat whites stiff, add the sugar, beat and add to the mixture. Bake
in buttered molds in a pan of hot water.
Sauce
1/3 cup butter
Grated rind of 1/2 orange
1 cup sugar
(and a little of the juice)
Yolks of the 2 remaining eggs
cup scalded milk
Marion Brown Corneliussen,
University of Illinois.
MAPLE RICE PUDDING
1/4 cup rice
1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 cups milk
3/4 cup maple syrup
2 eggs
Boil rice till tender. Scald milk in double boiler. Stir the corn-
starch smooth in one-half cup of the maple syrup and stir into the
hot milk. When mixture thickens, cover and let cook fifteen
minutes. Add the rice, which has been cooked till grains are dry
and distinct and beat in the yolks of eggs beaten light. Beat
whites of eggs till dry and gradually add remainder of maple syrup
and spread over pudding. Bake in moderate oven about ten or
fifteen minutes.
Mabel Mason Carleton, Cambridge, Mass.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
58
MOCHA PUDDING
1 1/2 cups scalded milk
1 1/2 cups coffee
1/2 cup sugar
Cook ten minutes in double boiler and add:
2 tablespoons gelatine
Yolks 2 eggs, well beaten
2 squares melted chocolate
1/4 cup sugar
Let cool a few minutes and then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of
two eggs; flavor with vanilla. Cool in individual molds and serve
with Wi.ipped cream. Serves eight persons.
Emily Gleason Perkins, Oklahoma City, Okla.
Boston University.
STEAMED CARROT PUDDING
1 cup grated raw carrot
1 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 cup grated raw potato
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cloves
Butter size of an egg
1 teaspoon soda mixed
1 cup flour
with potato
1 cup raisins
Mix well and steam three hours. Serve with sauce.
Marjorie L. Miller, Kewanee, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHOCOLATE RICE PUDDING
Boil rice until very soft. When nearly soft add chopped nuts, cocoa
and sugar (as much as is desired). Boil all together. Beat an egg
and add an equal quantity of canned milk. Stir into boiling rice
mixture. Mix thoroughly and as soon as it begins to bubble,
remove from stove, so as not to boil the milk. Add vanilla flavor-
ing.
Marion Brown Corneliussen,
University of Illinois.
DATE PUDDING
1/2 cup of pearl tapioca
Whites of 2 eggs well beaten
1 cup of dates, chopped
Little sugar
1 teaspoon of vanilla
Soak the tapioca for two hours in enough water to cover and cook
until clear in two cups of water seasoned with a pinch of salt and
one-quarter cup of sugar. Fold this in the stiffly beaten egg whites
and let the mixture cool. Sugar the dates lightly and mix with the
tapioca. Then fold in one-half cup of whipped cream. Garnish
with whole fruit.
Lucile Peck, Menomonie Falls, Wis.
Northwestern University.
FLOAT
1 quart milk
2 heaping tablespoons corn-
1/2 cup sugar
starch
3 eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt (may be
1 teaspoon vanilla
omitted)
Scald milk in double boiler, saving a little to mix cornstarch with
eggs. Mix slightly beaten eggs, sugar, cornstarch together and add
to hot milk. Cook until mixture thickens on spoon. Remove from
fire, cool and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and flavoring. Let
stand before serving cold.
Marian Van Ness, Chicago, Ill.
University of Michigan.
CLLGE W O M A N S C O O K B o o K
59
CHARLOTTE RUSSE
Dissolve one-third box Cox gelatine in one cup milk. Beat the yolks
of three eggs with one-half pint of sugar until creamy and flavor
with vanilla. Combine the egg yolk and sugar mixture with the
dissolved gelatine and fold into one quart of cream whipped to a
froth. Add the beaten whites of three eggs. Line a deep dish with
sponge cake or lady fingers and pour over the mixture.
Charlotte Reed, Martinez, Calif.
University of California.
QUICK DESSERT
2 cups brown sugar
2 cups water
2 teaspoons cornstarch
Nuts or cocoanut
Whipped cream
Boil first three ingredients together five minutes. Set aside and cool.
Add nuts or cocoanut. Serve with whipped cream.
Beth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, III.
Northwestern University.
JELLIED APPLES
Pare and core ten or twelve small apples, put on deep pan with
two and one-half cups water, and one and one-half cups sugar, pinch
salt, cook on top of stove until tender. Place each apple in separate
mold and cover with the following jelly mixture:-one-half box or
two tablespoons granulated gelatine dissolved in a little cold water,
juice of two lemons, add syrup in which apples were cooked, enough
to make a scant quart in all. Color pink if desired. Serve with
whipped cream.
Doris Munsey, Swampscott, Mass.
Boston University.
PEACH MELLOWS
Take peach halves, fill the cavity with marshmallow, and pour
over them the following:
1 cup peach juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 yolk of an egg
1 teaspoon cornstarch dis-
solved in water
Let juice and sugar come to a boil. Add the egg yolk and corn-
starch to the boiling juice and let come to a boil but do not boil
hard. Pour over peach halves while still hot. Sufficient for 6 peaches.
Ruth Cordes, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
CHERRY COBBLER
Fruit Mixture
2 cups cherries (pitted)
2 teaspoons flour
2/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon water
1/8 teaspoon salt
Dough
1 cup flour
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 tablespoons shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons milk
Mix the cherries, sugar, flour and salt. Allow to stand five minutes.
Add the water. Pour the mixture into a deep baking dish. Mix the
flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Cut in the shortening with a
knife. Add the milk, mixing until a soft dough is formed. Shape it
with the hands to fit over the cherries and make three slits in the
dough to permit the steam to escape. Place in a moderate oven
and bake for thirty minutes. Serve with whipped cream. Six por-
tions.
Ruth Foley, Paris, III.
Northwestern University.
CLEGE W o M A N S C O O K B o o K
60
CARAMEL CREAM DESSERT
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon gelatine
1/2 pint cream
Caramelize sugar, adding sufficient boiling water to make one pint
of liquid. Soak gelatine in half cup of cold water and add to hot
caramel liquid, mixing thoroughly. Allow mixture to cool and
begin to set. When but slightly set, add the cream which has been
well whipped. Pour into sherbet glasses and serve very cold. Will
serve six or eight, depending on size of glasses.
Louise Leonard, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
NESSELRODE PUDDING
(Frozen)
3 cups cream
2 cups sugar
5 egg yolks
Pinch of salt
2 cups milk
1/2 cup pineapple syrup
1 pint nuts
1 cup candied pineapple
Make a custard of the milk, sugar, eggs and salt. Strain, then cool.
Add the pineapple syrup, cream. Then freeze. When partly frozen,
add the nuts and fruits cut up. Serves twelve.
Lillian Hanson Halgren Menominee, Wis.
University of Minnesota.
PEACH SHERBET
1 quart water
10 peach kernels
2 cups sugar
Juice 2 oranges
1 teaspoon gelatine
Juice 1 lemon
1 pint peach pulp
Boil water, peach kernels, and sugar ten minutes. Add gelatine
softened in two tablespoons cold water and strain. When cool
add the peach pulp (fresh peaches pared, stoned, and pulp passed
through a ricer or sieve), the lemon and orange juice. Remove
peach kernels and freeze.
Marjorie Sibley, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
GRAPE SHERBET
1 quart water
1 pint grape juice
1 pint sugar
Juice 2 lemons
1 teaspoon gelatine
Make a syrup of the sugar and water, add grape and lemon juice.
Hydrate gelatine in small amount of cold water, add to hot liquid,
and when dissolved, freeze as usual.
Olga H. Six, Broadlands, Ill.
Northwestern University.
FRUIT CUP
1 cup white grapes
1/2 cup orange juice
1 cup orange sections
1/2 cup pineapple syrup
1 cup pineapple diced
Sugar
Few grains salt
Remove skins and seeds from white grapes, and membrane from
orange sections. Mix fruit, orange juice and pineapple syrup or
fresh pineapple juice, salt and sugar to sweeten. Put in freezer,
pack in ice and salt, and stir occasionally until juice begins to
freeze. Serve in champagne glasses garnished with maraschino
cherries. Makes eight small or six large servings.
Lois Bunnelle, Corvallis, Oregon.
Oregon Agricultural College.
C o L L E G E W O M A N S C o o K B o o K
62
LONDON SHERBET
Juice of 6 oranges
1 small can grated pineapple
Juice of 3 lemons
4 cups sugar
Mix all together; let stand a few minutes; put into a gallon freezer.
Add enough whole milk to fill freezer three-fourths full and freeze.
Harriet E. Smith, Avoca, Iowa.
Iowa State College.
FRUIT SHERBET
3 oranges
3 bananas
3 lemons
3 cups granulated sugar
3 cups water
3 egg whites
Prepare juice from the oranges and lemons, mash the bananas, put
all through a strainer; add water and sugar; stir until dissolved.
Put into a freezer and freeze to the consistency of mush, then open
the top and quickly stir in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Repack
and finish freezing. Makes two quarts.
Ruth Hickox, Barberton, Ohio.
University of Akron.
FROZEN APRICOTS
1 quart canned apricots
1 quart water
2 cups sugar
Juice from apricots.
Remove skins from apricots and cut pulp in quarters or eighths;
add the juice, water, and sugar which has been made into a syrup.
Cool and add apricots. Freeze. Allow mixture to stand an hour
before serving.
Lenore Stafford, Geneseo, Ill.
Northwestern University.
APRICOT FRAPPE
1 can apricots
1 quart water
1 pint sugar
1/2 pint whipped cream
Mash the apricots and press them through a sieve, then add sugar
and water. Put in freezer and turn until nearly frozen. Fold in
cream, freeze and pack.
Irma Strassen Brady, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
ANGEL PARFAIT
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup water
3 egg whites
1 pint whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla
Cook sugar and water together until it forms a soft ball in cold
water. Pour over stiffly beaten egg whites and beat until cool.
Add whipped cream and flavoring. Put in a mold with a tight lid
and pack in ice and salt for several hours.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
GRAPE JUICE MOUSSE
1 pint cream (whipping)
1 cup grape juice
1/2 cup powdered sugar
Whip cream, add sugar and grape juice, turn mixture into a mold,
pack in ice and salt, and let stand for four hours.
Note: Strawberry mousse may be made by substituting
2 cups mashed strawberries for grape juice
Chocolate mousse may be made by substituting
4 squares Baker's chocolate (melted) for grape juice
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
CLEGE W o M A N S C O o K B o o K
63
NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM
1 pint milk and
4-6 egg yolks
1 pint cream, or
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 quart rich, creamy milk
1 tablespoon vanilla
Beat the egg yolks until light colored and creamy. Add sug ir and
milk, or milk and cream which has been scalded. Return to the
double boiler and cook as boiled custard. Strain the mixture into a
dish set in cold water (to cool quickly), flavor and freeze.
The Neapolitan method is considered best for making vanilla,
coffee, chocolate, and caramel creams.
Ruth Trice, Kansas City, Mo.
Northwestern University.
PEPPERMINT ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1/2 pound striped pepper-
1 pint cream
mint candy
Crush candy and dissolve in milk. When this mixture is half
frozen, add the one pint of cream beaten stiff and finish freezing.
Erminie Lamb, Tacoma, Wash.
University of Washington.
CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
2 squares chocolate
1 8 teaspoon salt
1 cup water
1 quart cream
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt chocolate; add hot water and heat five minutes; add sugar,
salt and cool. Add cream and vanilla and freeze.
Doris Bigelow, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM
1 can grated pineapple
2 cups water
1 cup sugar
2 cups whipping cream
Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water ten minutes; cool; add
pineapple and freeze to a mush. Fold in whipped cream; let stand
thirty minutes before serving. Serve in frappe glasses and garnish
with candied pineapple.
Elsie Goodman, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
BUTTER SCOTCH SAUCE
1 cup sugar (white or
2 tablespoons flour
brown)
2 or 3 tablespoons cold water
1 cup water
2 tablespoons butter
Cook sugar till caramelized. Add one cup water carefully. When
caramel is melted and again boiling, stir in two tablespoons flour
smoothed with two or three tablespoons cold water. Continue to
stir till boiling, then let simmer ten minutes. When cool add two
tablespoons of butter.
Pearl Rainey, Mt. Vernon, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHOCOLATE SYRUP FOR VANILLA ICE CREAM
1 ounce chocolate
2 inches of stick cinnamon
4 tablespoons sugar
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt chocolate over hot water; add four tablespoons sugar and the
boiling water gradually, stirring constantly. When smooth and
glossy, add the sugar and cinnamon and stir until boiling begins;
let boil five minutes, strain, cool, and add the vanilla.
Ruth Vielehr, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
COLLEG E W o M A N S C O O K B o o
K
64
Cakes, Fillings, Frostings
BLACK WALNUT CAKE
1/2 cup butter (scant)
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup water (cold) or milk
3 cups Swan's Down flour
sifted 3 times
4 egg whites
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup black walnut meats
Cream the butter and sugar; add 1/2 the water and one cup flour;
beat thoroughly and add second cup flour; into the last cup of
flour add the baking powder and then remainder of water and beat
well. Add the nuts and flavoring and lastly very carefully fold in
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in three round tins in moderate oven.
Put together with fig and black walnut filling and top with boiled
frosting.
Lois Denman Stubblefield, Bloomington, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
MARBLE CAKE
Light
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup butter
1/2 cup milk
1 cup flour -
1 teaspoon baking powder
1
teaspoon vanilla
Whites of 2 eggs
Dark
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup butter
1/8 cup molasses
1/8 teaspoon soda
5/8 cup milk
2 egg yolks
1 cup flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon cinnamon cloves
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cream sugar with butter, add milk, flour which has been sifted with
baking powder and flavorings. In making the light part, fold in the
beaten egg whites. Drop in alternating spoonfuls of light and dark
batter in round or square buttered pan. Bake thirty-five minutes
in moderate oven.
Edith v. Grupe, Buffalo, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
BURNT SUGAR CAKE
Flavoring Syrup:
1 cup sugar burned until it smokes blue; then add
1 cup boiling water
Boil until the sugar is all dissolved and the syrup is clear.
Cake:
1/2 cup butter
2 egg yolks
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup water
2 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat all together for five minutes and then add:
3 tablespoons flavoring syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla
3
egg whites beaten stiff
Bake in moderate oven. This makes two layers.
Frosting:
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
Boil until it spins a thread and add:
3 tablespoons flavoring syrup and boil again
Pour over two egg whites stiffly beaten.
Frances Domack Richey,
Birmingham, Mich.
CEG E W O M A N S C o o K B o o K
68
QUICK LAYER CAKE
Sift together the following:
1 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
In measuring cup melt 1/4 cup butter. Add one egg, one teaspoon
flavoring, and fill cup with milk. Stir liquids into dry ingredients
and beat until well mixed and light. Bake in moderate oven.
Emily H. Butterfield, Farmington, Mich.
Syracuse University.
PINEAPPLE CAKE
1/3 cup butter
2/3 cup sugar creamed
2 egg yolks
1/2 cup pineapple juice
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat two egg whites very stiff and fold in last.
Pineapple Cream Filling
2/3 cup milk
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 egg
3 tablespoons sugar
1 cup grated pineapple
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
Scald milk and pour over cornstarch and sugar. Cook ten minutes,
then add pineapple, egg and salt. Cook until it thickens.
For the icing, use four times as much sugar as pineapple juice,
one teaspoon lemon juice.
Evelyn Austin, Wayne, Mich.
University of Michigan.
APPLE SAUCE CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 cup sugar
1 cup hot, thick, strained
1 egg, beaten
apple sauce (sweetened)
1 3/4 cups flour
1 cup mixed raisins, nuts,
1 teaspoon soda
dates
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening and sugar, add beaten egg. Mix soda with apple
sauce and add flour, spices, vanilla and fruit. Beat for one minute.
Turn into pan and sift granulated sugar over top. Bake forty
minutes.
Louise Whitmore Arthur, New Haven, N. Y.
Boston University.
CHEESE CAKE
Crust-cream 1/2 cup sugar and 1 1/2 tablespoons butter; add one
egg, 1/4 teaspoon baking powder, flavoring and enough flour to roll.
Roll thin and line two pie pans or square cake pans.
Cake-one pound cottage cheese creamed through sieve, one cup
sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, yolks four eggs, one pint cream, stiffly
beaten whites last. Vanilla. Bake until firm.
Leah Kahn, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
SPONGE CAKE
Put into a deep baking bowl
1 small cup granulated sugar
2 eggs-unbeaten
Salt
4 tablespoons cold water
1 cup flour sifted with
Flavoring
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat all ingredients together five minutes. Bake in unbuttered loaf
pan in slow oven.
M. Jeannette Martin, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
COLEGE W o M A N S C O o K B o O K
69
SPONGE CAKE
4 egg yolks (beaten)
1 cup sugar
4 tablespoons cold water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 cup flour
4 egg whites
Beat egg yolks, add sugar gradually and continue beating. To flour
add baking powder and cornstarch. Sift into yolks and sugar; add
water, also vanilla and beat thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten
whites of eggs. Pour into ungreased tube pan and bake forty min-
utes in slow oven. When done, invert pan on cake cooler but do
not remove cake until cold.
Beth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CREAM PUFFS
1 cup hot water
1/2 cup butter
1 cup pastry flour
4 eggs
Heat the butter and water until the mixture boils. Add the flour
all at once and beat thoroughly. Cook three to five minutes, until
mixture clings to spoon and leaves sides of saucepan. When cool
add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time. Beat until thoroughly mixed.
Drop by tablespoon on buttered baking sheets and bake in a mod-
erate oven about forty-five minutes. (Be sure they are thoroughly
done. Will be dry on outside.) Open at the side and fill with cream
filling and dust with powdered sugar.
Cream Filling
1/3 cup flour
2 cups scalded milk
2 eggs
1/8 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
Moisten the flour with some of the cold milk. Add this to the hot
milk. Cook fifteen minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly
until thickened. Beat the eggs, sugar and salt together. Add to
them the hot liquid and butter. Return to double boiler and cook
until the egg thickens, stirring constantly. When cool add flavoring.
Charlotte Martin, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
ORANGE CREAM LAYER CAKE
1/3 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 3/4 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup sugar
1 cup sweetened flavored
1 cup milk
whipped cream
Cream shortening; add sugar gradually, beating well; add beaten
egg, one-half milk-then mix. Add one-half flour sifted with salt
and baking powder; add remainder of milk, flour and flavoring. Mix
after each addition. Bake in two greased tins in moderate oven for
twenty minutes. Spread whipped cream thickly between layers
and cover top with
Orange Frosting
1 tablespoon cream
1/2 teaspoon orange flavoring
1 cup confectioner's sugar
Pulp and rind of 1 orange
1 tablespoon melted butter
Add sugar to the cream slowly. Then add orange pulp, rind, flavor-
ing and melted butter. Beat until smooth and spread on top of cake.
Edith Morgan, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLEE W o M A N S C O O K B o o K
70
ORANGE SHORTCAKE
2 cups bread flour
6 tablespoons shortening
6 teaspoons baking powder
2 egg yolks
1 teaspoon salt
Milk
1 tablespoon sugar
Oranges
Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, and sift together four
times. Work in shortening, using tips of fingers. Beat egg yolks;
add milk to make three-fourths of a cup; stir into flour, mixing with
a knife. Put on board, knead slightly, roll, cut out with a large
biscuit-cutter, and bake in a hot oven. Split shortcakes, butter
generously, fill with oranges that have been pared, cut in thin sec-
tions and sweetened. Serve with whipped cream, marshmallow
cream, or ice cream.
Evelyn Leander, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
ORANGE LOAF CAKE
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup butter
2 cups orange juice
Grated rind of one orange
4 eggs
2 1/2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cream butter, add sugar and egg yolks, beating constantly. Mix
and sift flour with salt and baking powder and add alternately
with liquid to the batter. Do not grease tin but line pan with
waxed paper and bake in moderate oven thirty-five to forty minutes.
Cover with orange frosting or use unfrosted.
Sidonie Sewald Larrance, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ORANGE TEA CAKES
1 1/2 teaspoons baking pow-
1 1/2 cups flour
der
3 eggs-separate the yolks
1 tablespoon orange juice
from the whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup boiling water
1/2 teaspoon salt
Beat yolks of eggs. Add strained orange juice and sugar. Heat for
ten minutes. Add salt, boiling water, whites of eggs stiffly beaten,
and flour. Bake in small gem pans in quick oven for ten minutes.
About twenty cakes.
Ruth Cordes, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
PINEAPPLE CAKE
1/2 cup fat
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
2 egg yolks
3/4 cup syrup drained
2 cups flour
from crushed pineapple
2 egg whites
Cream fat and sugar. Add egg yolks. Sift dry ingredients and add
alternately with pineapple syrup. Fold in beaten whites. Bake in
moderate oven twenty-five minutes.
Icing
2 egg whites stiffly beaten
2 cups powdered sugar
3/4 cup crushed pineapple
Beat well and add powdered sugar until mixture holds its shape.
Doris Bunnelle, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
71
ANGELFOOD CAKE
Whites of 11 eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar sifted 6 times
1 cup pastry flour sifted 6
1 level teaspoon cream of
times
tartar
1 teaspoon of vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
Beat eggs until stiff. When about half beaten add cream of tartar
and finish beating. Fold in sugar, add flavoring. Then fold in flour.
Pour in ungreased pan and bake very slowly forty-five to sixty
minutes.
Mildred Brown, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
MOCK ANGEL FOOD CAKE
1/2 cup milk
1 cup sugar
1 cup Swan's Down cake
3 teaspoons (level) baking
flour
powder
1 pinch salt
2 egg whites, beaten very stiff
Heat milk to boiling point. Sift flour, salt, sugar five times and stir
into hot milk. Add flavoring and fold in egg whites. Do not use a
greased pan. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in slow oven, increasing heat
when cake is at top of pan. When done invert.
Charlotte E. Dines, Evanston, III.
Northwestern University.
DEVILS FOOD CAKE
Part I-Chocolate Sauce
1 cup bakers chocolate
1 cup brown sugar
(grated)
1 cup milk
Boil until thickened. When cool, add two teaspoons vanilla.
Part II
1 cup brown sugar
2 cups flour
1/4 cup butter
1/2 cup sour milk-1 tea-
2 eggs
spoon soda
Cream sugar and brown, add beaten egg yolks, milk in which soda
has been dissolved and flour. Add cooled chocolate sauce and fold
in beaten whites of eggs. Place in greased tins and bake in a
moderate oven. Use a mocha frosting.
Frosting
1 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon cocoa
1 tablespoon butter
3 tablespoons coffee
Cream butter and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating;
then add cocoa and coffee until stiff enough to spread.
Margaret Roberts Jones, Coldwater, Mich.
University of Wisconsin.
DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE (POTATO)
2 cups granulated sugar
3/4 cup crisco
4 eggs, yolks
1 cup hot mashed potatoes
2 squares Baker's Chocolate
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
(grated, about 1/2 cup)
2 teaspoons cinnamon
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup milk
2 cups flour
1 cup nut meats
Cream together sugar and crisco, then cream with the yolks of the
eggs. Stir in the mashed potatoes, grated chocolate and nut meats.
Sift together the flour, nutmeg and cinnamon and stir in alternately
with the milk. Beat thoroughly and lastly fold in the beaten white
of eggs. Makes large cake.
Lois Walker, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o O K
72
FUDGE CAKE
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup chocolate dissolved
3 egg yolks
in water
1 cup sweet milk
2 1/2 cups flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup nuts-cut fine
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 egg whites, beaten light-added last
Cream sugar and butter; add chocolate, egg yolks, milk and flour
(sifted with baking powder). Fold in the chocolate, vanilla and
beaten egg whites. Bake in buttered pan in moderate oven.
Elva Moore Christophersen, Rockford, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CHOCOLATE CAKE
Part I
3/4 cup grated chocolate
1/2 cup strong coffee
1/2 cup brown sugar
Put in a saucepan and cook until thick. Cool.
Part II
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup coffee
1 3/4 cups flour
2 eggs
-
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter and sugar; add coffee, egg yolks and chocolate sauce
(Part I). Add flour sifted with soda and baking powder, vanilla.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
Use mocha frosting between layers of cake.
J. Dickson, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
BUTTERLESS, EGGLESS, MILKLESS CAKE
2 cups sugar (use brown if
1 pound chopped raisins
preferred)
2 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
2/3 cup crisco, or meat drip-
1/2 teaspoon allspice
pings
Boil three minutes and cool. Add to this cold mixture
4 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon soda
This makes a stiff batter. Instead of all raisins, 1/2 cup nuts may be
substituted; if so, put them in with the flour after mixture is cool.
Bake slowly for one and one-half hours.
Mary More, Berkeley,Calif
University of California.
PRUNE CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 cup mashed prunes
1/2 cup chocolate
1 tablespoon butter
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 level teaspoon soda
2 eggs
3/4 cup milk
Flour enough to make stiff batter
Cream sugar with butter; add milk, chocolate and flour, which has
been sifted with soda and baking powder. Add spices and prunes.
Bake in buttered pan in a moderate oven.
Icing
1/3 cup butter
1 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon strong black coffee 1 tablespoon chocolate
Cream butter and add sugar gradually. Add coffee and chocolate.
Virginia Kilgore, Oakland, Cal.
University of California.
COLL,EG E W O M A N S C O o K B o O K
73
SUNSHINE CAKE
Whites of 6 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cream tartar
Yolks of 6 eggs
1 cup sifted flour
Beat whites until stiff and dry, then add sugar gradually, beating
constantly; then add well beaten yolks and vanilla. Cut and fold in
flour sifted with baking powder. Bake 45 minutes in moderate oven.
Margaret Roberts Jones, Coldwater, Mich.
University of Wisconsin.
ENGLISH SPICE CAKE
1 package raisins
1 cup nut meats
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup chopped citron
1/2 cup butter
3 teaspoons cinnamon
2 eggs
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 teaspoons soda
3 cups flour
Simmer raisins for 20 minutes in just enough water to cover. Drain,
saving one large cup of water to cool. Cream sugar and butter.
Add beaten egg yolks; also raisin water and flour in which soda and
spices have been sifted. Add raisins and citron (carefully dredged
in flour) and nutmeats. Fold in egg whites. Bake slowly in greased
angel food tin for 60 minutes.
Helen Pfeiffer Higgs, Peoria, Ill.
Northwestern University.
WASHINGTON PIE
3/4 cup sugar
1 egg yolk
1/3 cup fat
3/4 cup milk
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 beaten egg white
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cream fat with sugar. Sift together the flour, baking powder and
salt. Beat sugar, fat and egg yolk together, and add alternately with
milk. Then fold in vanilla and stiffly beaten egg white. Pour into
buttered tin and bake in moderate oven.
Custard
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons cornstarch
1 egg yolk
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Combine and cook in double boiler until thick. Cool. Spread on
top of cake and serve.
Rose Shepherd, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
POTATO CARAMEL CAKE
2 cups sugar
2/3 cup butter
2 cups flour
1 cup hot mashed potato
1/2 cup sweet milk
4 eggs
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup grated chocolate
1 cup chopped nuts
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon nutmeg
Cream butter and sugar. Add yolks of eggs, then add milk,
potatoes, spices, and chocolate. Mix baking powder in with flour.
Beat the batter well. Add the well beaten whites of the eggs and
the nuts last. This makes a large loaf.
Helen R. Murray, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
CLEE W o M A N S COOK B o o K
74
YELLOW LOAF CAKE
2 cups sugar
1 scant cup butter
1 cup milk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
4 whole eggs-separated
Cream butter with sugar; add milk; and flour which has been sifted
three times with baking powder. Fold in stiffly beaten eggs. Bake
forty to forty-five minutes in moderate oven.
Elsie Gaiser Mitchell, Charleston, Ill.
University of Illinois.
HOT WATER GINGERBREAD
1 cup molasses
1/2 cup boiling water
2 1/4 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda
1 1/2 teaspoon ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons melted butter
Pour water over molasses and add the dry ingredients (sifted
together). Beat for about two minutes and bake in a buttered
pan for thirty minutes in moderate oven.
Frances Barron, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ANGEL GINGERBREAD
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup molasses
1 tablespoon shortening
1 teaspoon soda
1/3 cup boiling water
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
114 cups flour
Mix well and bake in moderate.oven
Serve hot with whipped cream-when used as a dessert. Serves
six persons.
Louise Whitmore, New Haven, N. Y.
Boston University.
CRUMB CAKE
3 cups flour
2 cups sugar
1 cup butter
Rub all together like pie crust. Reserve about 3/4 cup of this and
to remainder add:
2 well beaten eggs
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 teaspoons molasses
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
Put in cake tin and sprinkle the 3/4 cup of crumbs on top and bake
slowly. Do not frost.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
CRUMB CAKE
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter and lard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 lemon rind
2 eggs beaten separately
1 large spoon molasses
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 cups flour
1 cup raisins dredged with flour
Bake in two layers twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Sprin-
kle one-half cup crumbs on top of one layer before it is baked.
Cream Filling
1 cup scalded milk in a 1 beaten egg with 1/2 cup
double boiler
sugar
3 level teaspoons cornstarch
Stir until thick; let cool; flavor with vanilla extract.
Evelyn M. Ewert, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
75
DATE CAKE
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons crisco
1 egg
1 cup cut dates
1 teaspoon soda sprinkled
1 cup cut nuts
over dates and then fill
134 cups flour
cup with boiling water
May be made by beating all ingredients together for about two
minutes or by usual method of creaming sugar and butter; adding
water, soda, dates, nuts, and flour; and lastly adding beaten egg.
Bake slowly in buttered tin.
Evelyn Flanley Peterson, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
MARSHMALLOW ICING
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon corn syrup
Boil until it spins a thread, drop in six marshmallows, then pour
slowly on one stiffly beaten egg white, add one-half teaspoon lemon
extract and beat until nearly cold.
Vina Freitag Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo.
University of Illinois.
MOCHA FILLING
6 tablespoons butter
2 cups confectioner's sugar
4 tablespoons dry cocoa
2 tablespoons warm liquid
1 tablespoon vanilla
coffee
Beat butter to a cream. Add one cup sugar. Sift in cocoa. Beat
well. Put in coffee and rest of sugar and vanilla.
Mary Clendenin, East Orange, N. J.
Allegheny College.
BUTTERSCOTCH FILLING
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup brown sugar
3/4 cup warm milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons cold milk
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
Confectioner's sugar
Place butter and brown sugar in saucepan and stir over fire until
they form a candy. Then pour in 3/4 cup milk. Let simmer until
candy is melted. Now thicken with one tablespoon cornstarch mixed
with two tablespoons milk. Beat up egg and add, stirring until it
thickens. Add vanilla. Use more than half for filling and to the
rest add enough confectioner's sugar to make a paste for icing top
and sides of cake.
Edith Speckman Kern, Chicago, Ill.
University of Minnesota.
PINEAPPLE FILLING FOR CAKE
1 small can grated pine-
cup sugar
apple
1 tablespoon flour
1 egg yolk
1 teaspoon lemon juice
Cook until thick, let cool and spread on cake. Cover. with any
boiled icing.
Vina Freitag Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo.
University of Illinois.
SEVEN MINUTE FROSTING
Have water boiling in bottom of double boiler. In upper part, put
white of one raw egg, three tablespoons cold water and one cup
cane sugar. Beat for seven minutes with a double Dover egg beater.
Frosting should be the consistency of marshmallow cream.
Note:-Be sure water in bottom of boiler boils all the time while
beating.
Viola Michel, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
7
CLEGE W o M A N S C o O K B o o K
76
CHOCOLATE SAUCE
Good for ice cream, boiled rice, puddings, etc.
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup boiling water
1/4 cup cocoa
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix sugar and cocoa, add boiling water, and stir and cook till it
boils. Let boil five or six minutes. Use hot or cold. Do not flavor
till ready to use.
Violet Long, Dudley, Ill.
Northwestern University.
BAVARIAN CREAM (Cake Filling)
Bake your favorite Sunshine or Sponge Cake in tube pan. Cover
over with the following Bavarian Cream:
1
envelope (scant) Knox
1/2 cup water-warm
gelatine
6 egg yolks
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 bottles plain cream
1 1/2 bottles whipping cream
Vanilla to flavor
Pinch salt
1 cup chopped almonds
Dissolve gelatine in water. Heat plain cream and mix. Add this to
eggs and sugar, creamed together. Whip whipping cream, add
vanilla and salt, and add to other mixture. When cool, spread thick
over cake. Blanch, chop and brown almonds and sprinkle over all.
Will serve sixteen. Can be made the day before. Keep cool.
Beth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
LADY FINGER TORTE
6 eggs
1 cup almonds (ground)
1 cup sugar
6 stale lady fingers (grated
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
and browned for a
1 teaspoon vanilla
minute in oven.)
Beat eggs well. Add sugar gradually (constantly beating mixture)
then almonds and finally the lady fingers and baking powder. Flavor.
FILLING
1 cup cream
1 cup chopped almonds
3 egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
Cook in double boiler until thick; stir occasionally. Serve between
the layers of cake and top with whipped cream to which has been
added a small amount of sugar and vanilla.
Vera Gifford Nott, Byron, III.
Northwestern University.
DATE TORTE
1 cup dates (stoned)
1 1/2 cups flour
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 egg
1 scant teaspoon soda dis-
solved in little boiling
water
Cook stoned dates in 1 1/2 cups boiling water for ten minutes. Cool.
Cream sugar with butter and add soda and one cup of the flour.
Add dates (dredged in flour), walnuts and one-half cup of flour with
baking powder. Bake in two layers in moderate oven and put
together with butter filling and top with whipped cream.
Butter Filling
Cream butter size of walnut, add one cup powdered sugar and enough
milk to give it the consistency for spreading.
Marguerite Rickert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
C o L L E G E W M A N S C o o K B o o K
77
Cookies E° Doughnuts
SUGAR COOKIES
1/2 cup butter
2 1/4 cup flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup milk
1/3 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter with sugar; add egg; milk and dry ingredients (sifted
together). Roll thin and bake in moderate oven.
Violet MacLeod, North Tonawanda, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
SWEDISH COOKIES
1 1/2 cups sugar
Flour-about 5 cups,
1/2 cup butter
enough so that mixture
1 cup sour cream
will not stick to board
2 eggs, well beaten
1 teaspoon flavoring-
1 teaspoon baking powder
vanilla or lemon
1 teaspoon soda
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Sift baking powder and soda
with flour and add to mixture alternately with sour cream. Sprinkle
cookies with sugar. Bake 10 minutes in a quick oven.
Helen E. Heggie, Evanston, III.
Northwestern University.
SWEDISH COOKIES
1 cup of brown sugar
1 cup nuts
1 cup of granulated sugar
1/4 cup hot water with 1 tea-
1 cup of butter or fat
spoonful soda dissolved in
2 eggs
it
3 1/2 cups flour
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla
Form dough into a roll, let stand over night, or for several hours in
ice box, slice, and bake in moderate oven.
Helen Hartsook, Winterset, Iowa.
Northwestern University.
FUDGE SQUARES
3 tablespoons butter
cup sugar
1 egg
cup milk
1 cup flour
2 tablespcons cocoa
1 teaspoon baking powder
1
4
teaspoon salt
1/2 cup walnuts
1
teaspoon vanilla
Melt the butter, add sugar and egg unbeaten. Add nuts with the
cocoa, flour, salt, and baking powder which have been sifted alto-
gether. Add the milk alternately with the dry ingredients. Put in
shallow pan and bake in moderate oven. Cut in squares before
re-
moving from pan.
Esther Hunter Ong, Champaign, III.
University of Illinois.
NUT COOKIES
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup melted shortening
1 teaspoon baking powder,
1 egg
sifted with
1/2 cup sweet milk
1 1/2 cups flour
2 squares chocolate, melted
1 cup nut meats
Drop with spoon and bake in hot oven.
Irene Gunn Lucas, San Luis Obispo, Calif.
University of California.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
78
CHOCOLATE COOKIES
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon soda (in milk)
1 beaten egg
1 1/2 cups flour
2 squares melted chocolate
Make as cake. Drop from a spoon on greased pan. Bake in moderate
oven.
Frost as follows:
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons water
Butter size of egg
2 squares chocolate
Cook until it sticks together in water (like fudge)-b and spread
before too thick. Add yolk of egg, beaten in slowly when frosting
is partly cold.
Vera Gifford Nott, Byron, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHOCOLATE DIPS
6 eggs separated
1 heaping teaspoon baking
1 cup sugar
powder
1 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar and beat well, then add beaten
yolks and sifted flour. Flavor. Bake in square pan in hot oven and
cool. Cut in small squares. Dip in following icing.
1/3 cup cocoa
2 cups sugar
1 cup water
Boil until a thick syrup. Let cool and dip squares. Then roll in
powdered sugar. This will make 36 small cakes.
Esther Hardy Halsey, Omaha, Nebr.
Brenau College.
GINGER COOKIES
1/3 cup sugar
1 egg
1 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup molasses
3 cups flour
1 heaping teaspoonful bak-
teaspoonful cloves
ing powder
1 tablespoonful ginger
1 teaspoonful cinnamon
1 cup milk
Mix the sugar, beaten egg and melted shortening. Stir soda into
molasses and add. Sift flour, baking powder and spices together
and add. Pour in milk and beat well. Bake in a moderate oven.
This cake may be baked in a biscuit pan, muffin tins, or rolled out
thin for cookies. It makes a dozen and a half small cakes. If sour
milk is used, stir in 1/4 teaspoonful of soda.
Alice C. Taylor, Cambridge, Mass.
Boston University.
BOSTON COOKIES
1 cup butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups sugar
1 cup chopped nuts
3 eggs
1/2 cup chopped raisins
3 cups flour
1/2 cup currants
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
If eggs are not large, one or two tablespoons milk or water should
be added to make a stiff batter. Cream butter with sugar; add
beaten eggs; add gradually the flour sifted with other dry ingredients
Wash and dredge currants and raisins and add with nuts (alter-
nating with flour).
Drop by spoonfuls on greased tin and bake in moderate oven.
Makes about six dozen cookies.
Dorothy Joesting Lundvall, Baltimore, Md.
Goucher College.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B O o K
79
WINE DROPS
1 cup molasses
1 cup sugar
1 cup shortening
1/2 cup hot water
1 egg
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup chopped raisins
4 cups flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon and cloves
Cream butter with sugar; add molasses and soda and then hot
water; wash and dredge raisins with flour and add with egg; add
flour gradually. Drop from spoon on well greased tins and bake
in a hot oven.
Isabelle Rae Copleston, Coxsackie, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
WINE AND ROSEWATER COOKIES
1/2 pound butter
1 pound sugar
3 eggs
Rind of 1 lemon
1 glass red wine
2 teaspoons baking powder
3 teaspoons rosewater or
3 or 4 cups of flour, enough
vanilla
to roll out
Cream sugar and butter; add wine, flavoring; sift flour and baking
powder together and add gradually to the dough, alternating with
well beaten eggs. Roll out thin and bake in a hot oven.
Makes six to seven dozen.
Evelyn M. Ewert, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
BUTTER SCOTCH COOKIES
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 cup butter
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
Pinch of salt
4 cups flour
Cream butter with sugar; add beaten eggs and vanilla; sift salt,
soda and cream of tartar with flour and add gradually to the dough.
Mix at night and make into a long roll. In the morning, cut into
slices and bake in moderate oven.
A cup of nut meats can be added if less butter is used.
Loretta Heilman, Akron, Ohio,
University of Akron.
ALMOND COOKIES
1 cup white sugar
1 cup brown sugar
3/4 cup melted butter
3/4 cup melted crisco or but-
4 1/2 cups flour
ter substitute
3 eggs
1 tablespoon cinnamon and
Small teaspoon soda in flour
salt
1/2 pound blanched almonds
Mix and put in loaf. Let stand in buttered tins over night. Cut in
thin slices and bake as wanted. Will keep in the ice box for some
time.
May Willis Whitney, Cleveland, Ohio.
University of Wisconsin.
PECAN FIVE O'CLOCK TEAS
Beat the white of one egg stiff. To this add one cup of brown sugar
(be sure that there are no lumps) and one cup salted pecans. Drop
portions about the size of a large walnut into a well buttered pan
and cook in a moderate oven about twenty or thirty minutes.
You may use the unsalted pecans, in which event add a little salt
to the ingredients. Walnuts may be substituted for pecans.
Mildred Horn Hall, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
80
MOLASSES FRUIT COOKIES
1 cup sugar
cup shortening
2 eggs
2/3 cups molasses
1 teaspoon soda in water
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
2 1/2 cups flour
2 cups raisins
Drop from a spoon on greased pan and bake in moderate oven.
Makes about three dozen large cookies
Vera Gifford Nott, Byron, Ill.
Northwestern University.
DATE BARS
1 cup brown sugar
1 tablespoon butter
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/3 teaspoon soda
134 cups flour
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 cup dates
1 cup nut meats
Mix and roll one-quarter inch thick and cut in strips. Place on
buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven.
Mary Hoy Lonnsbury, Crawfordsville, Ind.
De Pauw University.
DATE BARS
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 cup flour
teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 pound dates, chopped
1 cup walnut meats, chopped
Vanilla
Beat the egg yokes stiff and then add sugar and beat. Add the
stiffly beaten whites and the dry ingredients alternately to the
dough. Add the vanilla, dates and nuts to the mixture and spread
in a large flat pan and bake about thirty minutes. Cut in bars
as
soon as taken from the oven.
E. Violet MacLeod, North Tonawanda, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
PALMER COOKIES
Dough
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 egg
1/2 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons, cream of tartar
Filling
1/2 cup dates, ground
1/2 cup raisins, ground
1/4 cup figs, ground
1/2 cup English walnuts,
1/4 oup black walnuts,
chopped
chopped
1 tablespoon cornstarch,
Grated rind and juice of
dissolved in water
one lemon
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup water
Mix all together and cook until thickened. Set away to cool.
Make dough like any butter cake.
Roll dough quite thin and cut with cookie cutter. Put one teaspoon
filling in center of cookie and place another cookie on top. Press
firmly around the edges. Bake in moderate oven.
Black walnuts may be omitted if desired.
Elizabeth Barnes, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
C
L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B O O K
81
FILLED COOKIES
Cookie
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup sour cream
teaspoon salt
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking powder
3 eggs
1 teaspoon soda
Add enough flour to roll. Line pan with very thin layer. Spread with
filling, and cover with another thin layer. Bake in a moderate oven.
Cut in squares.
Filling
1 cup sugar
1 package raisins or dates
2 tablespoons flour
ground
1 cup boiling water
Cook slowly ten minutes.
Vera Smollett Rogers, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
DATE FILLED COOKIES
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon soda
2/3 cup butter
2 eggs
1 cup thick sour cream
3 1/2 cups flour
Filling
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup warm water
1 cup chopped dates
Cook and cool.
Roll cookies one-eighth inch thick, spread with a teaspoon of filling
and cover with second cookie; press the edges together and bake in
hot oven. Filling may have walnuts added or may be made with
raisins or figs.
Mildred Strong Castle, Joliet, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
BROWNIES
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup melted butter
2 eggs
2 tablespoons cocoa
3/4 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup choppeld walnut meats
Mix sugar, cocoa and butter; add eggs, flour, vanilla and nut meats.
Put in a greased pan so that batter is one-half inch thick. Bake in
a slow oven. When cool, cut in oblong slices.
Doris Morton, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
HERMIT COOKIES
2 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 cup butter (soft)
1 cup chopped raisins
4 tablespoons sweet milk
1 teaspoon each of cloves,
1/2 teaspoon soda
cinnamon and allspice
Flour to roll
Cream sugar and butter; add eggs and beat; then dredged raisins,
milk and spices, soda. Add enough flour to roll dough and bake
in
moderate oven. Do not have much flour on cutting board.
Georgia Dickover, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
Syracuse University.
TORTONS
Whites of seven eggs beaten stiff; two cups pulverized sugar sifted
three or four times with half teaspoon cream tartar; flavor. Beat
twenty minutes. Put in well-greased muffin pans. Bake for one
hour in a slow oven.
Marie Hunter Calhoun, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ohio University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
82
OATMEAL COOKIES
3/4 cup fat
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
1 cup raisins
5 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups flour
2 cups oatmeal
1/2 cup nut meats, chopped
Cream fat, add sugar, then beaten eggs. Cook raisins in the water
until tender. Add cinnamon and flour in which the soda has been
sifted. Add the oatmeal; lastly, raisins and nut meats dredged in
flour. Drop from a spoon on a greased pan and bake in hot oven.
Makes three dozen.
Lorraine Best Dietz, Ames, Ia.
Iowa State College.
RUSSIAN ROCKS
114 cup brown sugar
1 cup butter
3 eggs (beaten separately)
2 3/4 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda (in a little 2 teaspoons cinnamon
hot water)
3/4 teaspoon cloves
2 cups pecan nuts
Mix in the order given and drop on buttered tins and bake in a
moderate oven.
Gwendolyn Morris, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
ROCKS
1 cup sugar
1 cup butter
2/3 teaspoon soda dissolved
2 eggs, well beaten
in 2/3 cup sour milk
2 cups oatmeal
1 cup raisins
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking powder sifted with 2 cups flour
Cream butter with sugar; add sour milk and soda. Then add rest
of ingredients in the order given. Drop by tablespoons on greased
tin and bake in moderate oven. Makes three dozen.
Elizabeth Banta, Low Point, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CHINESE CHEWS
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup pastry flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped dates
1 cup walnut meats
2 eggs
Mix dry ingredients. Add nuts and dates and beaten eggs. Spread
in thin sheet. Bake and do not allow to bake hard on the edges.
Cut in squares about 114 or 1 1/2 inches. When cool enough to
handle roll in balls and roll in granulated sugar.
Makes about 36.
J. McRuer, Toronto, Canada.
Toronto University.
VANITIES
2 eggs (well beaten)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or rose
Flour to mix very stiff
water
Mix and roll as thin as possible; cut in squares and fry in hot lard;
drain and sprinkle on both sides with powdered sugar.
Irma Strassen Brady, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
MACAROONS
Two egg whites, beaten stiff; add one cup sugar, one cup cocoanut,
three cups corn flakes and one cup chopped nuts. Drop from tea-
spoon onto a buttered pan and bake in a slow oven until a golden
brown. Allow to cool and remove with a knife. Makes 20.
Irma M. Fraser, Bloomington, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CLEE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
93
SOFT GINGERBREAD
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup shortening
3 cups flour sifted with
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour milk
3 eggs
Cream butter and sugar. Sift flour and spices and add alternately
with the milk in which soda has been dissolved; then add one egg at
a time, beating vigorously with each additional egg. Pour into
buttered tin and bake in moderate oven.
Melba Burden, Sonora, Calif.
University of California.
GINGER BREAD
Put one cup molasses in bowl with one-half cup butter and one-half
cup granulated sugar. Pour over this one cup boiling water with
one large teaspoon soda dissolved in it, and let cool. Add one tea-
spoon each of cinnamon and ginger, 2 1/2 cups flour, two well-beaten
eggs (1 cup walnuts and one cup raisins if desired).
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
DOUGHNUTS
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons butter
3 eggs
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 1/2 teaspoon salt
Flour to roll
Cream butter with sugar; add beaten eggs and mix well. Add 3 1/2
cups flour mixed and sifted with baking powder, salt and spices,
alternately with milk. Add enough more flour to make dough stiff
enough to roll. Roll one-fourth inch thick; cut and fry.
Alice C. Taylor, Cambridge, Mass.
Boston University.
DOUGHNUTS
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg or mace
About 5 cups flour
2 teaspoons cream tartar
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon salt
Beat eggs; add sugar and beat; then add milk, flavor and dry
ingredients. Dough should be as soft as can be handled. Roll to
one-quarter thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until brown.
Drain and cool. Note. Fat is hot enough for frying when dough-
nuts come quickly to the top of fat. Avoid turning more than once.
Do not use old fats.
Ruth Gifford Vielehr, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
DROP CAKES
1 cup sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 cup shortening
2 cups flour
1 cup milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
Sift sugar, flour, baking powder and salt together; add melted
shortening to the milk, egg, and flavoring, mixed together. Combine
the dry and liquid mixtures and mix well. Bake in individual tins
for 20 minutes. Cover with
Jelly Meringue
White of 1 egg
1/2 cup currant or grape jelly
Put egg white and jelly together and beat with egg beater until stiff.
Edith Morgan, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o K B o o K
84
Pickles E Sauces
CHUNK PICKLES
Cut cucumbers in thick slices and put in salt water over night (or
three hours will do). Drain. For one quart of cucumbers, take one
pint of vinegar, one cup sugar, one teaspoon mustard seed, two
teaspoons mixed spices and a little stick cinnamon. Put vinegar
and sugar on fire. When hot put in cucumbers and stir until they
turn color. Then put in cans and cover tightly. When they have
cooled, pour off the juice and heat, pour over pickles and seal.
Louise Merriman Winner, Cleveland, Ohio.
Syracuse University.
PICKLES
Small pickles are preferable. Wash cucumbers and dry perfectly.
Fill jars with pickles. Mix:
1 gallon cider vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 cup ground mustard
1 cup salt
Heat through and pour over the pickles in the jars. Seal while hot.
Helen Fornecker, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
FRENCH PICKLES
20 cucumbers (not larger
6 onions sliced
than three inches) sliced
1 pint vinegar
lengthwise
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon each of celery seed, mustard seed, pepper,
cinnamon, salt and tumeric.
Slice cucumbers, sprinkle with salt, let stand one hour. Then drain
add other ingredients and let come to a boil. Seal in Mason jars.
Marguerite Richert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
SPICED PRUNES
1 pound prunes
Lemon
3-inch stick cinnamon
1 teaspoon cloves
1/2 cup cider vinegar
1/2 cup brown sugar
Soak prunes over night. Cook them slowly in the water in which
they have been soaked with a bag of spices and two slices of lemon.
When tender, add vinegar and brown sugar. Cook slowly until
syrup is thick.
Clara Jakes, La Fayette, Ind.
De Pauw University.
SPICED CURRANTS
5 pounds currants-picked
4 pounds sugar
1 pint vinegar
1 wine glass cloves
1 wine glass stick cinnamon
Boil one-half hour. Put in sterile glasses and seal.
Louise S. Woods, Oakland, Calif.
University of California.
BEET PICKLE
1 quart cooked beets
1 quart raw cabbage, chopped
1 cup horseradish
fine
2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon salt
1 teaspoon pepper
1/4 teaspoon red pepper
Vinegar to cover
Place chopped beets and cabbage in large bowl. Mix thoroughly
the horseradish, seasonings with some vinegar and pour over mix-
ture. Add enough more vinegar to cover pickle. Makes about one
gallon.
Elizabeth Banta, Low Point, Ill.
University of Illinois.
C o L L E G E W
o
M
A
N
S
C
O
o
K
B o o K
91
OLIVE OIL PICKLES
Wash and slice thin
4 dozen small cucumbers
1 cup olive oil
1 quart vinegar
1/2 cup black mustard seed
1/2 cup yellow mustard seed
1/2 cup salt
1 tablespoon celery seed
1/2 cup sugar
Pour over cucumbers and let stand over night. Seal in jars. No
cooking.
Rhoda Edmonds Weingartner, Kiel, Wis.
University of Wisconsin.
CELERY SAUCE
12 stalks celery
12 large onions
1 peck ripe tomatoes
4 red peppers
4 cups sugar
5 tablespoons salt
7 cups vinegar
Chop celery, onions and peppers fine. Add sliced tomatoes and other
ingredients. Cook two hours or until thick. Makes nine quarts.
Eunice Prutsman, Chicago, Ill.
De Pauw University.
CHILE SAUCE
5 dozen red tomatoes
1 dozen green peppers
6 large onions
10 cups vinegar
10 cups sugar
5 tablespoons salt
1 tablespogn ginger
1 tablespoon cloves
1 tablespoon pepper
Slice onion fine; chop tomatoes, peppers and onion all together and
boil one hour without any water. Then add remaining ingredients
and cook two hours longer. Place in jars and seal.
Marsha Allee Pearson, Chicago, Ill.
De Pauw University.
RHUBARB PICKLE
1 quart stewed rhubarb
1 quart sugar
1 quart chopped onions
1 quart vinegar
1 tablespoon ginger
1 tablespoon salt
Cook half an hour. Before taking off fire, add a little cinnamon,
allspice and cloves.
Margaret Dow, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
MUSTARD PICKLES
1 quart large cucumbers
2 quarts tiny cucumbers,
sliced
whole
1 quart large onions, sliced
2 quarts small onions, whole
2 heads raw cauliflower, cut
3 green peppers
in sections
3 red peppers
Cover with brine made of one cup salt to one gallon of boiling water.
Let stand twenty-four hours.
Paste
1 cup flour
1/4 pound dry mustard
4 cups sugar
1/2 ounce tumeric
1/2 gallon cider vinegar
1/2 ounce celery seed
Cook paste ten minutes. Cook all together ten minutes. Drain salt
water off pickles and add to paste. Seal in pint mason jars. Makes
about eleven pints.
Helen Mc Illvaine, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C 0 0 K B o o K
92
PEPPER PICKLES
6 onions
6 green peppers
6 red peppers
1 1/2 cup vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 spoon salt
Put onions and peppers through grinder together. Then pour
boiling water over and let stand five minutes and drain. Add the
vinegar, sugar and salt. Cook twenty minutes and seal while hot.
Viola Thurmond, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
YUMMY PICKLES
(Uncooked)
1/2 peck ripe tomatoes
10 cents worth white mustard
3 ripe peppers
seed
3 green peppers
1 tablespoon ground black
Large bunch celery
pepper
(cut in bits)
3/4 cup salt
Dice vegetables and add seasoning mixed with vinegar. Pour over
all.
Gladys Murphy, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
INDIAN RELISH
2 quarts green tomatoes
6 tablespoons salt
(chopped and drained)
8 tablespoons sugar
1 cup celery (chopped fine)
6 teaspoons mustard seed
4 red peppers
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
Combine ingredients (tomatoes, celery and peppers). Cover
with two cups boiling vinegar to which has been added salt, sugar,
mustard seed and spices. Bottle.
Kathryn Wilson, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
MUSTARD PICKLES
1 quart small cucumbers
1 quart green tomatoes
1 quart small button onions
1 large cauliflower, cut into
4 red peppers (cut fine)
flowerettes
Make a brine of four quarts water and one pint salt, pour it over the
vegetables, and let soak twenty-four hours.
Heat just enough to scald and turn into a colander to drain. Mix
one cup flour, six tablespoons ground mustard, one tablespoon tu-
meric with enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste, then add
one cup sugar and enough vinegar to make two quarts in all. Boil
this mixture until it thickens and is smooth, stirring all the time,
then add the vegetables and cook until well heated through.
Mildred Mitton, Dorchester, Mass.
Boston University.
SPANISH PICKLES
1 peck green tomatoes thin-
1/2 ounce allspice berries
ly sliced
1/2 ounce peppercorns
4 onions thinly sliced
1/2 cup brown mustard seed
1 cup salt
1 pound brown sugar
1/2 ounce cloves
Cider vinegar
4 green peppers finely chopped
Sprinkle alternate layers of tomatoes and onions with salt, and let
stand over night. In the morning drain, and put into a preserving
kettle; add the remaining ingredients using enough vinegar to cover
all. Heat gradually to boiling point and boil one-half hour.
Mary Matkin, Flatriver, Mo.
University of Missouri.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o
K
93
Knox
Knox No. 3 Acidulated Gelatine is the "Busy Housekeeper's'' package. It contains
Lemon Flavor, the basis of all jellies, and saves time, labor and expense.
BAVARIAN CREAM No. 1
(Without eggs.)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup scalded milk.
1/2
cup cold water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 pint heavy cream.
1 teaspoonful rum, or
1/3 cup sugar.
2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, if desired.
Set bowl containing mixture in pan of cold water, and stir until mixture begins to
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in hot milk, then add sugar.
dipped in cold water, and chill.
thicken. Add cream, beaten until stiff, and flavoring. Turn into a mold, first
BAVARIAN CREAM No. 2
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup cold water.
1 cup sugar.
2 cups milk.
1 pint heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
Yolks of four eggs.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
and sugar; add soaked gelatine, and when mixture begins to thicken add cream and
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of milk, yolks of eggs
vanilla. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill.
CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM
ened chocolate to the hot milk.
Make same as Bavarian Cream No. 1, adding two squares of melted, unsweet-
COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM
coffee in place of one-half cup of the milk, and add one tablespoonful lemon juice.
Make same as Bavarian Cream No. 1, substituting one-half cup strong boiled
STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM
M envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup cold water.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
1 cup strawberry juice and pulp.
MA cup sugar.
12 cups heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
sugar, and when sugar is dissolved set bowl containing mixture in of ice water Add
ing mixture in hot water. Strain into strawberry juice mixed with lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve by standing cup contain-
lined and stir until mixture begins to thicken; then fold in cream. Turn pan into wet mold
berries and leaves. A delicious cream may also be made with canned strawberries.
with strawberries cut in halves, and chill. Garnish with fruit, selected straw-
Strawberry
Bavarian Cream
was
Knox
COCOANUT CREAM
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup shredded cocoanut.
cup cold water. 3 eggs.
Few grains salt.
cup sugar. 2 cups milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make custard of yolks of eggs, sugar
and milk; remove from range and add soaked gelatine. When mixture begins to
set, add cocoanut, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, salt and flavoring. Line a mold
with sections of orange, pour in mixture and chill.
MACAROON CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
2 cup cold water.
Few grains salt.
3 eggs.
ant cup pounded macaroons.
2 cups milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of egg yolks, sugar,
salt, and milk. Add soaked gelatine to hot custard, and when nearly cool, add whites
of eggs, beaten until stiff, macaroons and vanilla. Turn into individual molds,
first dipped in cold water, and chill. For "French Cream" add one square chocolate.
PRUNE ORIENTAL CREAM (Illustrated on Page 3)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
pint heavy cream.
cup cold water.
cup milk.
cup scalded milk.
cup cooked prunes, cut in pieces.
2 cup sugar.
cup chopped figs.
Whites of two eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in scalded milk, and add
sugar. Strain into a bowl, set in pan containing ice water, and stir constantly until
mixture begins to thicken; then add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, heavy cream,
diluted with milk and beaten until stiff, prunes and figs. Turn into a wet mold, the
bottom and sides of which are garnished with halves of cooked prunes, and chill.
Remove from mold to serving dish, and garnish with whipped cream (sweetened
and flavored with vanilla), forced through a pastry bag and tube, and chopped
pistachio nuts.
SPANISH CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar (scant).
3 cups milk.
teaspoonful salt.
Whites of three eggs.
1 teaspoonful vanilla, or
Yolks of three eggs.
3 tablespoonfuls wine, if desired.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup milk. Scald remaining milk, and pour slowly on
the yolks of eggs well beaten. Add sugar and salt and return to double boiler.
Cook until mixture thickens somewhat. Remove from stove, and add gelatine and
whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Flavor, and turn into individual molds, first dipped
in cold water, and chill. Serve with whipped cream. More gelatine will be required
if large molds are used.
COLUMBIA PUDDING (Illustrated on Page 6)
Cover the bottem of a fancy mold with Wine Jelly mixture. Line upper part of
mold with halves of figs, cut crosswise and soaked in jelly mixture five minutes,
having seed sides next to mold. When both are set fill with Spanish Cream mix-
ture and chill. When ready to serve remove to serving dish and garnish with
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla (forced through a pastry bag
and tube) and sections of glacéd cherries.
CANTON CREAM
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 tablespoonf ul brandy.
1
cup cold water. 1 cup milk.
2 tablespoonf uls ginger syrup.
Yolks of two eggs. Few grains salt.
cup Canton ginger, cut in pieces.
1 tablespoonful wine.
1 pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in cold water, and add to custard made of milk, eggs, sugar, and
salt. Strain, chill in pan of ice water, add flavorings, and when mixture begins to
thicken add cream, beaten until stiff.
not
12
on
-
Knox)
LEMON SPONGE OR SNOW PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
cup cold water.
cup lemon juice.
1 cup boiling water.
Whites of two eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar,
lemon juice and grated rind of one lemon, strain, and set aside; occasionally stir
mixture, and when quite thick, beat with wire spoon or whisk until frothy; add
whites of eggs beaten stiff, and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape.
Pile by spoonfuls on glass dish. Chill and serve with boiled custard. A very attrac-
tive dish may be prepared by coloring half the mixture red with tablet found in each
package.
BANANA SPONGE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
cup cold water.
Whites of two eggs, beaten stiff.
1 cup banana pulp.
1 dozen blanched Pistachio nuts,
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
finely chopped.
Soak
gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put banana pulp, lemon juice and
sugar in saucepan, and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add soaked
gelatine, and stir until cool. When mixture begins to thicken, fold in whites of eggs,
beaten until stiff, turn into wet mold or paper cases, and sprinkle with chopped nuts.
PINEAPPLE SPONGE (Illustrated on Page 23)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains salt.
Yolks of three eggs.
cup grated canned pineapple.
Grated rind of one lemon.
cup cold water.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
MP
cup heavy cream.
cup sugar.
Whites of three eggs.
Beat yolks of eggs slightly, and add grated rind, lemon juice, sugar, and salt.
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Remove from
range, and add gelatine (which has soaked in cold water five minutes) and pineapple.
When mixture begins to thicken, add cream, beaten until stiff, and whites of eggs,
beaten until stiff. Turn into a mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove
from mold to serving dish, and garnish with whole and half slices of canned pine-
apple (around the edge of which there is a piping of whipped cream, sweetened and
flavored with vanilla), glacéd cherries, and green leaves.
MOCHA SPONGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups strong boiled coffee.
1 cup cold water.
N° cup sugar. Whites of three eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and add to hot coffee; then add sugar.
Strain into pan, set in larger pan of ice water, cool slightly, then beat, using a wire
whisk, until quite stiff. Add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and continue the beat-
ing until mixture will hold its shape. Turn into a mold, first dipped in cold water.
Chill thoroughly, remove from mold and serve with sugar and thin cream.
MAPLE SPONGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup hot water.
11 cups cold water.
Whites of 2 eggs.
2 cups brown or maple sugar.
1 cup chopped nut meats.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put sugar and hot water in saucepan,
bring to boiling point and let boil ten minutes. Pour syrup gradually on soaked
gelatine. Cool, and when nearly set, add whites of eggs beaten until stiff, and nut
meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve with custard
made of yolks of eggs, sugar, a few grains of salt, milk, and flavoring.
CHERRY SPONGE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine
11 cups canned cherries.
A cup cold water.
1 cup canned cherry juice.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup sugar. Whites of two eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in hot cherry juice. Add
cherries, stoned and cut in halves, sugar and lemon juice. When mixture begins to
set add whites of eggs. beaten until stiff. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water,
and chill. Garnish with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, and
chopped cherries. Other canned fruits may be substituted for the cherries
12
des
Knox
MARSHMALLOW PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Whites of 3 eggs.
cup cold water.
11 teaspoonfuls vanilla.
cup boiling water.
Macaroons.
1 cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar,
and as soon as dissolved, set bowl containing mixture in pan of ice water; then add
whites of eggs and vanilla and beat until mixture thickens. Turn into a shallow
pan, first dipped in cold water, and let stand until thoroughly chilled. Remove from
pan and cut in pieces the size and shape of marshmallows; then roll in macaroons
which have been dried and rolled. Serve with sugar and cream.
NEWPORT PUDDING
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup boiling water.
1} tablespoonfuls Sauterne.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 tablespoonfuls sherry.
1/2 cup cold water.
Green coloring.
Whites of three eggs.
Red coloring.
boiling point, and let boil three minutes. Remove from range and add gelatine
Put sugar in small saucepan, pour over boiling water, set on range, bring to
then add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and continue the beating twenty minutes.
which has soaked in cold water five minutes. Beat until mixture begins to stiffen;
one-half color the sherry and color pink; to remaining third add remaining sherry and
Divide the mixture into thirds. To first third add Sauterne, to second third add
pink, then the white, then the green. Chill thoroughly.
green. Arrange in layers in a fancy mold, first dipped in cold water, first the
MARSHMALLOW CREAM
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup cold water.
1 cup sugar.
cup boiling water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Whites of four eggs.
1 teaspoonful lemon extract.
11 squares chocolate.
over Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes. Add boiling water and
gelatine. teakettle until dissolved. Cool, but do not chill. Stir sugar into dissolved place
sugar, a To few spoonfuls at a time, beating constantly. Divide quickly gelatine into and
Beat the whites of eggs very light, and to the eggs add the
flavor vanilla; the to the second part add melted chocolate and vanilla flavoring, flavor and
parts. with the first part add part of the pink color found in package and three
third part with lemon.
to made the with the Chill, cut in slices and serve with or without whipped cream cherries
Mold white. in layers in square mold, adding nuts to the pink part and red
yolks of eggs. Attractive if served with ice cream instead or of sauce cake.
Marshmallow
Cream
IIII
1A
Knox)
ANGEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
M dozen rolled stale macaroons.
1 pint heavy cream.
1 dozen marshmallows, cut in small pieces.
Vanilla or sherry.
2 tablespoonfuls chopped candied cherries.
cup cold water.
1/2 lb. blanched and chopped almonds.
cup boiling water.
Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, and add sugar. When
mixture is cold, add cream, beaten until stiff, almonds, macaroons, marshmallows
and candied cherries. Flavor with vanilla or sherry. Turn into a mold, first dipped
in cold water, and chill. Remove from mold and serve with angelicake.
This dessert may be made more elaborate by cutting the top from an angel
cake and removing some of the inside, leaving a case with three-fourths inch walls,
then filling case with mixture, replacing top of cake, covering with frosting, and gar-
nishing with candied cherries and blanched almonds.
GRAPE JUICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup cold water.
11 cups heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
cup boiling water.
cup sugar.
1 cup grape juice.
Lady fingers.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Add
grape juice, lemon juice and sugar. Stir until mixture begins to thicken; thenfoldin
cream. Turn into mold lined with lady fingers. Remove from mold and garnish
with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, and candied violets.
CHARLOTTE RUSSE
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine
1 4 cup cold water.
1} cups milk.
1/2 pint heavy cream.
2 eggs.
2 tablespoonfuls sugar.
3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
Few grains salt.
1/4 teaspoonful vanilla.
Sponge cake.
Scald milk and add gradually to yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, and mixed with
sugar and salt. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens,
then add gelatine, soaked in cold water. Strain and add whites of eggs, beaten until
stiff. Set pan in larger pan of ice water and stir, scraping from bottom and sides of
pan, until mixture begins to thicken. Then add cream, beaten until stiff, and mixed
with sugar and vanilla. Line round paper cases with strips of sponge cake, using
muffin rings to keep cases in shape. Fill with mixture and chill. Remove from cases.
center with a cube of jelly.
and garnish tops with four narrow strips of cake, radiating from center, and garnish
INDIVIDUAL CHARLOTTE RUSSE
Line a sherbet glass with lady fingers, leaving a small space between them. Fill
cherries. with any Bavarian Cream mixture and chill. Garnish with red and green Maraschino
Individual
Charlotte Russe
--
Knox
ORANGE CHARLOTTE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
cup cold water.
1 cup orange juice and pulp.
cup boiling water.
Whites of three eggs.
1 cup sugar.
Lady fingers.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Add
sugar, and when dissolved add lemon juice. Strain, cool slightly and add orange juice
and pulp. When mixture begins to stiffen beat, using a wire whisk, until light; then
add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and beat thoroughly. Turn into mold lined
with lady fingers. One pint whipped cream may be used in place of whites of eggs.
APPLE CHARLOTTE
Make same as Orange Charlotte, using cooked apple pulp in place of orange
juice and pulp.
PEACH SNOW BALLS
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup boiling water.
cup cold water.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1 cup canned peaches, apricots or pine-
Whites of three eggs.
apple, pressed through a sieve.
Make same as Orange Charlotte, and mold in egg cups.
ALMOND CARAMEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
lb. blanched almonds, finely chopped.
cup cold water.
1 pint heavy cream, beaten stiff.
1 cup granulated sugar.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1/2 cup boiling water.
1 dozen lady fingers.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Let stand over hot water until dis-
solved. Caramelize the sugar and add boiling water very gradually. Cool slightly
and add dissolved gelatine. When mixture begins to thicken add nut meats, cream
and vanilla. Pour into mold lined with lady fingers and chill.
BLANC MANGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 teaspoonful vanilla, or
31 cups milk.
1 tablespoonful rum.
cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in half cup milk five minutes. Scald remaining milk with sugar,
and add soaked gelatine. Strain, cool slightly, add flavoring and turn into a mold
first dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve with currant, strawberry, or any pre-
ferred jelly. Accompany with sugar and thin cream, or boiled custard. Substitute
cream for the milk and the dish becomes "Ivory Jelly."
CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
cup cold water.
Few grains salt.
1 quart milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 OZS. grated unsweetened chocolate.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Scald milk and add sugar, grated
chocolate and salt. When sugar is dissolved, add soaked gelatine; then add flavor-
ing. Turninto mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve with whipped cream,
sweetened and flavored with vanilla.
CHARTREUSE OF JELLY
Cut out the center of a round sponge cake, leaving the bottom and sides thick
enough. to hold a quart of jelly. Prepare a lemon, orange, strawberry or wine
jelly, and when it is cold and just ready to form, turn into the cake and set aside
in a cool place or on ice. When ready to serve cover the top with the chilled froth
from a cup of double cream and a cup of milk beaten with a whip churn. Flavor
the cream with vanilla or wine and add one-fourth cup of confectioner's sugar before
whipping.
III
16
M
Knox
GRAPE JUICE SOUFFLÉ
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Whites of four eggs.
1 pint grape juice, sweetened.
Also cup heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in grape juice ten minutes, then heat in double boiler until
gelatine has dissolved. Strain into bowl set in saucepan containing ice water, and
when mixture begins to thicken, fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Half fill
individual mold, first dipped in cold water, with mixture. To remainder add
cream, beaten until stiff. Fill molds with cream mixture, and chill. Remove from
molds to serving dish, and garnish with whipped cream (sweetened and flavored
delicately with vanilla), candied violets and green leaves.
COFFEE SOUFFLÉ
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
A teaspoonful salt
11 cups strong boiled coffee.
3 eggs.
cup milk.
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla.
aux
cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup cold coffee. Mix remaining coffee, milk and one-
half of the sugar and heat in double boiler. Add remaining sugar, salt and yolks of
eggs, slightly beaten. Cook until mixture thickens. Remove from range, add
softened gelatine, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, and vanilla. Mold, chill, and
serve with cream.
RICE MOLD WITH PINEAPPLE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains salt.
cup cold water
1 cup cooked rice.
No
cup scalded pineapple juice.
1 cup whipped cream.
cup sugar.
1 tablespoonf ul lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve by standing cup in hot
water. Add pineapple juice, sugar and salt to rice. Strain into this the gelatine,
and mix thoroughly; cool slightly, and add whipped cream and lemon juice. Turn
into mold lined with slices of canned pineapple. Chill, and serve with or without
whipped cream. Other fruits may be used in place of pineapple.
AN EASTER DESSERT
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
cup cold water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 1/2 cups milk or cream, scalded.
Few grains salt.
Soften the gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve in the hot milk;
add the sugar and flavoring. Wash a dozen large eggs, make a pin hole in one end
of each shell, a larger opening in the other end, then shake out the contents from
the shell; rinse the shells clean and drain; pour the chilled but liquid pudding
through a funnel into the shells and set them in an upright position in a pan of
broken ice or salt. When ready to serve, remove the shells and arrange the contents
in a nest of orange, lemon or wine jelly, or spun sugar may be used for the nest. Serve
with whipped cream.
NOTE-If desired, divide the above mixture into three equal parts, leaving mixture as
it is for white eggs, adding dissolved chocolate to the second part to make brown eggs, and
to the third part adding a small portion of the pink vegetable color tablet found in each
package, after dissolving in a little hot water, to make pink eggs.
NUT FRAPPÉ
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup cream.
cup cold water.
cup milk.
cup sugar.
White of one egg.
1 cup cooked pineapple and strawberries. 1 cup chopped nuts.
Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve over hot water. Add
dissolved gelatine to cream, milk and sugar and stir in beaten white of egg. When
cold, add the pineapple and strawberries which have been chopped in small pieces,
also the chopped nuts. Serve ice cold in sherbet glasses.
CHE
Knox
of
ORANGE TRIFLE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup orange juice.
MA cup cold water.
Grated rind of one orange.
1/2 cups boiling water.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine five minutes in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar,
orange juice, grated rind and lemon juice and strain. Pour one-half the mixture into
a shallow pan, dipped in cold water, and chill. Set bowl containing remaining mix-
ture in pan of ice water and stir constantly, until mixture begins to thicken; then
fold in heavy cream, beaten until stiff. Turn into a ring mold, first dipped in cold
water, and chill. Remove mixture from ring mold to serving dish and garnish with
glacéd cherries, cut to represent flowers, and angelica cut to represent leaves and
stems. Fill center with first part removed from pan and cut in cubes.
ST. REGIS PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup boiling water.
Few grains of salt.
cup cold water.
cup seedless raisins.
cup sugar.
cup brandy.
cup sherry wine.
cup canned apricots, cut in pieces.
cup apricot syrup.
Bring hot water and sugar to boiling point and let boil one minute. Add sherry
wine, apricot syrup, lemon juice, salt and gelatine, soaked in cold water. To raisins
add brandy and cook in double boiler until raisins are plump. Add to jelly mixture
with apricots cut in small pieces. Turn into a mold, chill thoroughly, remove from
mold and serve with or without whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla.
CHOCOLATE PLUM PUDDING
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sliced citron or nuts, as preferred.
Als cup cold water.
AX cup currants.
1 cup sugar.
1} squares chocolate.
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 pint milk.
1 cup seeded raisins.
Pinch salt.
1/2 cup dates or figs, if desired.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put milk in double boiler, add
melted chocolate, and when scalding point is reached add sugar, salt and soaked
gelatine. Remove from fire and when mixture begins to thicken add vanilla, fruit
and nut meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to
flavored with vanilla
serving dish and garnish with holly. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened, and
Chocolate
Plum Pudding
W
18
7007
Knox
IMPORTANT-Lemon Juice is used in a number of recipes in this book. For those who
prefer our Acidulated package, the Lemon Flavor contained therein may be used in
place of lemon juice. In some cases the housekeeper will have to use her own judgment
as to how much to use and flavor the dish according to taste.
MACEDOINE PUDDING
Als tablespoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. lb. marshmallows, cut in pieces.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
1 cup heavy cream.
2 tablespoonfuls boiling water.
2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
cup Maraschino cherries.
teaspoonful vanilla.
1/2 cup English walnut meats, cut in pieces.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Beat
cream until stiff, add powdered sugar, vanilla and dissolved gelatine. When mix-
ture begins to stiffen, add chopped cherries, nut meats and marshmallows. Turn
into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill.
PEACH CABINET PUDDING
1/20 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups milk.
1 can peaches.
Yolks of three eggs.
1/2 cup powdered sugar.
Whites of three eggs.
2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine.
cup sugar.
1 tablespoonful brandy.
teaspoonful salt.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
Drain peaches. cut in quarters, sprinkle with powdered sugar and pour over
sherry and brandy. Make a custard of milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt, and just be-
fore removing from fire add gelatine soaked in cold water. Strain, and when slightly
cooled add one-half cup liquor drained from peaches. Stir until mixture begins to
thicken, then add whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Line a mold with peaches, pour in
custard and chill.
ROYAL PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup cold water.
teaspoonful salt.
2 cups scalded milk.
1 tablespoonful brandy or teaspoonf ul
vanilla.
Yolks of three eggs.
5 lady fingers.
cup sugar.
6 macaroons.
sugar and salt. Strain, cool slightly and add flavoring. Place mold in pan of ice
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and add to custard made of milk, eggs
water. Decorate with candied cherries and angelica; cover with mixture,
carefully by spoonfuls. When firm, add layer of Tady fingers, first soaked in custard, adding
layer is firm before another is added. Chill, remove to serving dish and garnish with
then layer of macaroons, also soaked in custard. Repeat, care being taken that each
whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, and candied cherries.
Apple and
Grape Fruit Salad
(See Page 29)
III
19
7005
Knox
VANILLA PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar.
cup cold milk.
2 tablespoonfuls vanilla.
1 quart scalded milk.
Few grains salt.
1 quart cream.
Soak gelatine in cold milk five minutes and dissolve in scalded milk. Add sugar,
and when sugar is dissolved strain mixture into cream, and add flavoring. Freeze,
using three parts finely crushed ice to one part rock salt. Serve with maple sauce
and chopped pecan nut meats. If part of the cream is whipped and added when
partly frozen, it will improve it.
CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 1 quart thin cream.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 squares unsweetened chocolate.
Few grains salt.
1/2 cup boiling water.
1 tablespoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Melt chocolate and add boiling water
gradually, while stirring constantly. Add soaked gelatine, and when dissolved add
remaining ingredients. Freeze.
CARAMEL ICE CREAM
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
13 cups sugar.
1 quart milk.
1/80 teaspoonful salt.
1 pint cream.
1 tablespoonful vanilla.
Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk ten minutes. Caramelize one cup sugar
by putting in a granite saucepan and place over hot fire, stirring constantly until
melted and of the color of maple syrup. Add one cup hot water and simmer on back
of stove until of the consistency of a thick syrup. Add 3 cup sugar to the balance
of the milk and scald. Add dissolved gelatine, salt and the caramel. When cold
add flavoring and cream; strain and freeze. If preferred, the cream may be whipped
and added when the mixture is partly frozen.
NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar.
1/2 cup cold milk.
1 quart thin cream.
3/2 cups scalded milk.
Whites of three eggs.
Yolks of three eggs.
3 tablespoonfuls vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make custard of milk, yolks of
eggs and sugar. Add soaked gelatine and cream, and strain. When cold, add va-
nilla and freeze to a mush. Add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and continue the
freezing. Serve with Chocolate Sauce and chopped walnut meats.
CANTALOUPE FRAPPÉ
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
teaspoonful salt.
1/4 cup cold water.
cup sherry wine.
2 large cantaloupes.
1 teaspoonful lemon juice.
1/2 cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Dissolve over hot water and strain
into cantaloupe pulp, of which there should be two cups. Add remaining ingredients
and freeze. Serve in the rind of the melons, cut to represent baskets with or without
handles. To prepare the cantaloupe pulp, remove seeds, scrape pulp from rind and
force through a purée strainer.
CRANBERRY FRAPPÉ
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 quart cranberries.
1 cup cold water.
2/2 cups sugar.
3 cups boiling water.
4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold'water five minutes. Cook cranberries in boiling water until
soft; then force through a purée strainer. Add soaked gelatine, sugar and lemon
juice, and freeze. A delicious accompaniment to roast turkey.
III
21
III
Knox
CUSTARD ICE CREAM
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 1 cup sugar (scant measure).
1 quart milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
3 eggs.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of milk. Make a custard of the milk, yolks
of eggs, sugar and salt, and dissolve the gelatine in the hot custard. Strain, and
when cold add flavoring and freeze to a mush. Add whites of eggs, beaten until
stiff, and continue the freezing.
FRUIT SHERBET
(Economical)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine (scant measure).
1 cups sugar.
3 cups rich milk.
1 orange.
1 lemon.
Grate the outside of both orange and lemon. Squeeze out the juice and add
to this the sugar. Soak the gelatine in part of a cup of milk for five minutes, and
dissolve by standing in pan of hot water. Stir into the rest of the milk. When it
begins to freeze add the fruit juice and sugar, and fruit of any kind if desired. This
makes a large allowance for five persons.
MILK SHERBET
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 11 cups sugar.
1 quart milk.
Juice of three lemons.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup of the milk five minutes. Dissolve over hot water
and strain into remainder of milk. Mix lemon juice and sugar, add slowly to milk
mixture, and freeze. For a richer sherbet use half cream and half milk.
GRAPE JUICE SHERBET
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 pint grape juice.
cup cold water.
4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1} cups boiling water.
cup orange juice.
1 cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a syrup by boiling sugar and
hot water ten minutes, and add soaked gelatine. Cool slightly and add fruit
juices; then freeze. Serve in sherbet glasses and garnish with candied violets or
fruit, if desired.
Grape
Juice
Sherbet
22
Knox
Knox No. 3 Acidulated Gelatine is the "Busy Housekeeper's" package. It
contains Lemon Flavor, the basis of all jellies, and saves time, labor and expense.
ORANGE CREAM SHERBET
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 1} cups orange juice.
1/2 cup cold water.
1 pint heavy cream.
1} cups boiling water.
MA cup sugar.
1} cups sugar.
2 eggs.
Grated rind of two oranges.
Few grains salt.
1 cup lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Dissolve gelatine and sugar in
boiling water; add orange rind, lemon juice and orange juice. Turn into ice
cream freezer and freeze to a mush. Beat cream until stiff, and add sugar and salt.
Separate yolks from whites of eggs. Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored and
whites until stiff, and add to cream. Turn into frozen mixture and continue the
freezing.
WATERMELON SHERBET
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar.
1/2 cup cold water.
1 cup orange juice.
4 cups hot water.
2 cups watermelon cubes.
Soak gelatine in cold water for five minutes. Make syrup by boiling hot water
and sugar ten minutes and add soaked gelatine and orange juice. Strain, chill and
freeze to mush. Add watermelon cubes and let stand one hour.
GRAPE FRUIT SHERBET
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 2 cups grape fruit juice.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1 cup boiling water.
Few grains salt.
cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a syrup by boiling water and
sugar one minute. Add soaked gelatine, cool slightly and add remaining ingredi-
ents. Strain and freeze, using three parts finely crushed ice and one part rock salt.
CLUFF PUNCH
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
4 tablespoonfuls lemon iuice.
4 cups cold water.
2/2 tablespoonful rum.
2 cups sugar.
1 cup champagne,
Juice of six oranges.
MP cup brandy.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold water five minutes. Make a syrup
by boiling the remaining water and sugar twenty minutes. Add soaked gelatine,
cool and add fruit juices. Freeze to a mush, then add rum, champagne and brandy,
and continue freezing. Let stand two hours.
Pineapple
Sponge
(See Page 13)
23
CBB
Knox
PINEAPPLE MOUSSE
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Als cup sugar.
3 tablespoonfuls cold water.
1 tablespoonfu lemon juice.
1 cup scalded pineapple juice.
1 pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in hot pineapple juice.
Add sugar and lemon juice, and when cool add cream beaten stiff. Beat mixture
until stiff, using an egg beater, and fill wet mold to overflowing with mixture. Ad-
just cover, pack in rock salt and finely crushed ice, using equal parts, and let stand
four hours. Remove from mold to serving dish and garnish with half slices of
canned pineapple and candied cherries.
CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
cup cold water.
21 cups heavy cream.
cup boiling water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 squares unsweetened chocolate.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Melt chocolate in boiling water and
add soaked gelatine; then add sugar and vanilla. Cool and add cream, beaten stiff.
Fill a chilled mold with mixture, having mixture overflow mold, adjust cover, pack
in rock salt and finely crushed ice, using equal parts, and let stand four hours.
RASPBERRY MOUSSE
1
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
3 tablespoonfuls sugar.
AP
cup
cold
water. 1/4 cup boiling water.
1 cup raspberry juice.
1 pint heavy cream.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling water and cool.
Beat cream until stiff and add dissolved gelatine and remaining ingredients and
whole berries if desired. Fill chilled mold with mixture, adjust cover, pack in
rock salt and finely crushed ice, using equal parts, and let stand three hours.
CAFE A LA CARLOS
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
1/8 cup cold water.
Yolks of three eggs.
1 cup strong coffee, boiled.
1 pint heavy cream, beaten stiff.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of coffee, sugar and
yolks of eggs, and add soaked gelatine. Cool, add cream and freeze. Serve in parfait
glasses; garnish with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, forced
through a pastry bag and tube, and glacéd cherries or any fancy fruit.
MARRON BISQUE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 pint heavy cream.
cup cold milk.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 cup scalded milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 eggs.
1 cup prepared French chestnuts.
Soak gelatine in cold milk ten minutes. Add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, to
scalded milk; then add soaked gelatine. Add sugar and vanilla to cream and com-
bine mixtures; then add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and chestnuts. Fill mold
with mixture, having mixture overflow mold, adjust cover, pack in salt and ice,
using equal parts, and let stand three and one-half hours.
BAKED ICE CREAM
Whites of six eggs.
Thin sheet sponge cake.
6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 quarts vanilla Philadelphia brick ice
cream.
Beat whites of eggs until stiff and add sugar gradually while beating constantly.
then add vanilla. Cover a board with letter paper, lay on sponge cake, turn ice
cream on cake, having cake extend one-fourth inch beyond cream. Cover with
meringue and spread smoothly. Place on grate and brown meringue quickly in
hot oven; slip from paper to serving dish.
24
W
CABE
Knox
PINEAPPLE BOMB
PART I.
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
3 cup sugar.
1 can sliced pineapple.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
1 cup water.
Pink coloring.
Press juice from pineapple and add to syrup made by cooking water and sugar
five minutes; then add gelatine soaked in cold water five minutes. Color pink,
strain and freeze.
PART II.
tablespoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. teaspoonful vanilla.
cup medium cream.
cup powdered sugar.
Yolks of two eggs.
1 cup candied fruit, cherries and plums.
3 tablespoonfuls sugar.
Brandy.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
1 cup heavy cream.
Few grains salt.
Scald medium cream and add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, mixed with sugar
and salt. Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens, add gelatine soaked in cold
water and strain. Set bowl containing mixture in pan containing cold water, and
when beginning to thicken fold in heavy cream, beaten until stiff, vanilla, powdered
sugar, candied fruit, cut in pieces and soaked several hours in brandy to cover.
Line a three-pint brick mold, first dipped in cold water, with Part I and fill with
Part II, to overflow mold. Adjust cover pack in rock salt and finely crushed ice,
using equal parts, and let stand two hours.
ANGEL PARFAIT WITH CANDIED FRUIT
1
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
Whites of two eggs, beaten dry.
cup candied fruit cut fine.
1 cups heavy cream, beaten light.
cup granulated sugar.
3 tablespoonfuls wine or thick syrup.
cup water.
Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes or longer. Boil the sugar and
half cup of water to the soft ball degree (as in making boiled frosting), pour in a
fine stream onto the whites of eggs, beating constantly meanwhile; add the gela-
tine, stir over cold or ice water until the mixture is cold and begins to set, then
fold in the cream and the fruit and flavoring. The fruit will be softer if soaked in the
wine or syrup some hours or over night. Turn into a quart mold, lined with paper,
cover securely and let stand in equal measures of ice and salt about three hours.
NESSELRODE PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup prepared French chestnuts, broken
cup cold water.
in pieces.
2 cups milk.
1 cup pineapple syrup.
Yolks of four eggs.
1 cup candied fruits, cut in pieces and
1 cups sugar.
soaked in wine to cover.
1/2 teaspoonful salt.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 pint cream.
1 tablespoonful sherry wine, if desired.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of milk, yolks of
eggs, sugar and salt, and add soaked gelatine. Cool and add remaining ingredients.
Fill wet mold to overflowing with mixture, adjust cover, pack in rock salt and finely
crushed ice, and let stand three hours.
RICE PARFAIT
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
2 cups hot boiled rice.
teaspoonful salt.
1/2 cups milk.
1 cup chopped nut meats.
-1 cup cream.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in milk ten minutes and dissolve in hot rice. Add sugar and salt,
and when cool fold in cream, beaten until stiff. Add nut meats and Iflavoring. Turn
into a mold, and pack in ice and salt.
MAPLE RICE PARFAIT
Make same as Rice Parfait, using maple sugar in place of white sugar.
Salads
and
Savories
IMPORTANT-Lemon Juice is used in a number of recipes in this book. For those who
prefer our Acidulated package, the Lemon Flavor contained therein may be used in
place of the lemon juice. In some cases the housekeeper will have to use her
judgment as to how much to use and flavor the dish according to taste.
own
PERFECTION SALAD
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup cold water.
1/2 cup sugar.
3 cup mild vinegar.
1 teaspoonful salt.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1 cup cabbage, finely shredded.
2 cups boiling water.
2 cups celery, cut in small pieces.
2 pimentoes, cut in small pieces.
ingredients. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to
water, sugar, and salt. Strain, and when mixture begins to stiffen, add remaining
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Add vinegar, lemon juice, boiling
of lettuce or endive. Garnish with mayonnaise dressing, or cut in cubes, and serve bed
in cases made of red or green peppers, or turn into molds fined with canned pimentoes.
A delicious accompaniment to cold sliced chicken or veal.
TUNA FISH SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
da
cup cold water.
cup boiled salad dressing.
cup tuna fish.
teaspoonful salt.
cup chopped celery.
teaspoonful paprika.
green pepper, finely chopped.
2 teaspoonfuls vinegar.
2 tablespoonfuls chopped olives.
Few grains cayenne.
been Cool, and add tuna fish, separated into flakes, celery, pepper (from which seeds have
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and add to hot boiled salad dressing.
leaves, and garnish with slices cut from pimolas, diamond shaped pieces cut from
molds, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove from molds to nests of lettuce
removed), olives, salt, paprika, vinegar, and cayenne. Turn into six individual
green peppers, celery tips, and watercress.
Tuna
Fish Salad
<
(nox
JEWEL SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup vinegar.
cup cucumber.
cup pineapple syrup.
cup canned sliced pineapple.
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar.
cup cold water.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup boiling water. 1/4 cup sugar.
Few grains salt.
Pare, chop, and drain cucumber; there should be one-half cup. Chop and drain
pineapple; there should be one-half cup. Mix cucumber and pineapple, and add
gelatine, which has been soaked in cold water and dissolved in boiling water; then
add remaining ingredients. Turn into individual molds, first dipped in cold water,
and chill. Remove from molds to nest of lettuce leaves. Accompany with mayon-
naise dressing.
CHEESE SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
cup cold water. 2 cream cheeses.
3,
teaspoonful salt.
cup American cheese, cut in very small
teaspoonful paprika.
pieces.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve over hot water. Work
cream cheese until smooth, add American cheese, whipped cream, and soaked gela-
tine. Season with salt and paprika, turn into individual molds, first dipped in cold
water, and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves, and garnish with mayonnaise.
CUCUMBER SALAD
n envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 sprig parsley.
2 cups chicken stock, well seasoned.
2 cucumbers.
1 slice onion.
Green coloring.
Soak gelatine in one cup stock. To remaining stock add onion, parsley and
cucumbers, pared and grated. Cover and let stand two hours. Heat gradually to
the boiling point, add gelatine and color light green. Let stand until nearly cold,
then of strain into individual paper cases or molds, in the bottom of which is a slice
dan almonds.
cucumber. Garnish tops with mayonnaise dressing and halves of blanched Jor-
SALMON MOLD
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
Few grains cayenne.
Yolks of two eggs.
1/ tablespoonfuls melted butter
2 teaspoonfuls salt.
cup milk.
1 teaspoonful mustard.
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar.
1 can salmon.
salt, boiler, mustard, and cayenne; then add butter, milk, and vinegar. Cook in
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Mix egg yolks, slightly beaten, with
separated move to bed into of flakes. crisp lettuce Turn into leaves. fish mold, first dipped in cold water, chill, salmon, and're-
stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Add soaked gelatine and double
Salmon Mold
was
Knox)
FROZEN TOMATO CREAM SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
teaspocnful peppercorns.
cup cold water.
1 slice onion.
1 can tomatoes, quart capacity.
Sprig parsley.
2 cloves.
Few grains cayenne.
1 allspice berry.
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar.
1/2 teaspoonful celery seed.
MA pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Cook tomatoes with cloves, allspice
berry, salt, celery seed, peppercorns, onion, parsley, and cayenne, ten minutes.
Add soaked gelatine, cool slightly, and add vinegar. Freeze to a mush, add heavy
cream, beaten until stiff, pack in half-pound baking powder boxes, having mixture
overflow boxes, adjust covers, pack in salt and ice, and let stand one and one-half
hours. Remove from boxes, cut in slices crosswise, and serve on lettuce leaves.
Accompany with salad dressing.
ASPARAGUS SALAD
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
3 slices onion.
1 cup cold water.
3 cloves.
2 cups mild vinegar.
3 cups asparagus tips.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Add onion and cloves to vinegar, and
bring to boiling point. Strain and add soaked gelatine. When mixture begins to
stiffen, add asparagus tips, and turn into mold, first dipped in cold water. Chill
and remove to nests of crisp lettuce leaves.
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains cayenne.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
cup milk.
1 tablespoonful butter.
cup vinegar.
Yolks of two eggs.
3 tablespoonfuls sugar.
2 tablespoonfuls canned pineapple juice.
1 cup prepared fruit.
1 teaspoonful salt.
1 cup heavy cream.
teaspoonful paprika.
Lettuce.
well beaten, sugar, salt, paprika, and cayenne. Remove from fire and add grad-
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Melt butter, and add yolks of eggs,
ually milk, vinegar, and pineapple juice. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly
until mixture thickens, and add soaked gelatine. Remove from range, and beat
fruit, using Maraschino cherries, cut in small pieces and strained, orange pulp, canned
two minutes. Cool, stirring occasionally, and when beginning to set add prepared
sliced pineapple, cut in small pieces, and cream, beaten until stiff, being careful that
the fruit does not settle to the bottom. Pack in a wet brick mold, having mixture
overflow mold, adjust cover, and pack in finely crushed ice and rock salt, using two
parts ice to one part salt, and let stand two hours. Remove to bed of crisp lettuce
leaves, and cut in slices, crosswise, for serving. Accompany with mayonnaise dressing.
Frozen Fruit Salad
Knox
ASPIC JELLY
2 envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup Madeira wine.
2 tablespoonfuls each carrot, onion, and
1 quart brown stock.
celery, cut in small pieces.
1 cup cold water.
2 sprigs each parsley and thyme.
1 stalk savory.
3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
2 cloves. 1 bay leaf.
Whites of three eggs, slightly beaten.
Salt.
MA teaspoonful peppercorns.
Cayenne.
and wine in saucepan, bring to the boiling point, and let boil eight minutes; then
Put carrot, onion, celery, parsley, thyme, savory, cloves, bay leaf, peppercorns
strain. To brown stock add strained liquid, gelatine soaked in cold water five min-
utes, lemon juice, whites of eggs, slightly beaten, and salt and cayenne to taste.
Stir constantly until boiling point is reached, and let stand on back of range twenty
minutes; then strain and chill. One-quarter cup brandy may be added if desired.
CHICKEN ASPIC JELLY
Make same as Aspic Jelly, using chicken stock in place of brown stock.
ASPIC JELLY WITH BEEF EXTRACT
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
6 peppercorns.
31 cups cold water. 1 onion.
1 stalk celery.
1 ounce chopped lean raw ham.
1 sprig parsley.
1 teaspoonful beef extract or 2 bouillon
Bit of bay leaf.
cubes.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup cold water five minutes. Bring remaining in-
gredients, except beef extract and salt, to boiling point, and let simmer ten minutes;
then add salt, soaked gelatine and beef extract. Strain through a double thickness
of cheese cloth and chill.
MOCK ASPIC
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 quart cold water.
1 large bunch celery.
AP cup cold water.
4 slices carrot.
Salt.
2 slices onion.
Cayenne.
2 sprigs parsley.
Lemon juice.
1 sprig thyme.
Whites of two eggs.
1/2 teaspoonful celery seed.
Green coloring.
Wash and cut celery in small pieces. Put in saucepan with carrot, onion,
parsley, thyme, celery seed, and one quart cold water, bring to the boiling point,
and let simmer one and one-half hours. Strain and cool; there should be two cups
liquid. Add gelatine soaked in one-half cup cold water, and season to taste with
salt, cayenne and lemon juice; then add whites of eggs, slightly beaten, bring
slowly to the boiling point, color light green, and let stand on back of range to
clear, then strain and chill.
LOBSTER IN ASPIC
Remove meat from a two-pound boiled lobster, cut in pieces of uniform size,
and dress with olive oil, vinegar and cayenne. Mold in aspic jelly mixture, and chill.
Remove from mold to nest of crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with lobster shells and
large claws. Accompany with mayonnaise dressing. Sardines may also be molded
similarly in Aspic Jelly.
MINT JELLY FOR COLD LAMB
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 teaspoonful salt.
cup cold water.
Few grains paprika.
1 cup sugar.
1 cup finely chopped mint leaves.
1 cup vinegar.
Green coloring.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve in syrup made by boiling
sugar and vinegar five minutes. Add salt and paprika, color green and strain; then
add mint leaves. Let stand five minutes, strain into wet molds and chill.
ORANGE AND ENDIVE SALAD
Force Orange Jelly through a potato ricer. Arrange thin crosswise slices of
orange, from which seeds have been removed, on a bed of endive. Surround with
jelly, and pour French dressing over all.
Total
on
700
saw
Knox)
JELLIED CELERY
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
tablespoonful grated horseradish root.
1
cup cold water. 1/2 cups boiling water.
teaspoonful salt.
cup lemon juice.
Few grains pepper. Few grains cayenne.
cup sugar.
1 cup finely cut celery.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve in boiling water; then
add lemon juice, sugar, grated horseradish root, salt, pepper and cayenne. Color
light green and strain. When mixture begins to thicken, add celery, turn into mold
first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to small nests of lettuce leaves, and
serve with
French Russian Dresseng.-Mix one teaspoonful salt, one-third teaspoonful pep-
per, few grains cayenne, one-half cup olive oil, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one-
quarter cup tomato catsup, and two teaspoonfuls chives, cut in small pieces.
MUSHROOM BROTH
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 stalk celery.
1 cup cold water. 5 cups chicken stock.
1/2 teaspoonf ul salt.
1 cup mushrooms, broken in pieces.
Few grains pepper.
1 onion, thinly sliced.
3 cloves.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Place remaining ingredients in stew-
pan on range, bring to boiling point, and let boil ten minutes. Add soaked gelatine
and strain. Serve in bouillon cups, with a spoonful of whipped cream on each.
VEAL LOAF
1 envelope Knox Acidulated Gelatine.
2 cups chopped cold cooked veal, ham,
1 cup cold water.
beef or chicken.
2 cups stock, well seasoned.
cup canned pimentoes, cut in thin strips.
1 onion, peeled and sliced.
tablespoonful finely chopped parsley.
1 stalk celery.
Soak gelatine and one-half teaspoonful of the lemon flavoring found in the
Acidulated Package in cold water five minutes. Add onion and celery to stock,
bring to the boiling point, let boil three minutes, and pour over soaked gelatine.
When mixture begins to stiffen, add meat, pimentoes, and chopped parsley. Turn
into brick mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove from mold, and cut
in slices for serving.
SWEETBREAD SALAD
tablespoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 tablespoonfuls vinegar.
cup sweetbread, cut in slices.
2 tablespoonfuls boiling water.
cup cucumber cubes.
Salt.
cup heavy cream.
Mix sweetbread and cucumber cubes and season with salt. Beat cream until
stiff and add gelatine which has been soaked in the vinegar and dissolved in the
boiling water. Set in pan of ice water, and as soon as mixture begins to thicken
add sweetbread and cucumber. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and
chill. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish top with a sprig of parsley.
MEAT OR FISH RELISH
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup vinegar.
cup cold water. 2/2 teaspoonful salt.
cup sugar.
teaspoonful celery seed.
1} cups finely shredded cabbage.
teaspoonful mustard seed.
cup thinly sliced onion.
Soak gelatine in cold water, and dissolve in hot vinegar; then add remaining
ingredients. Turn into individual molds, lined with canned pimentoes, and chill.
MACEDOINE SALAD
Make Tomato Jelly mixture. Wash, scrape and cut celery stalks in thin slices
crosswise; there should be one cup. Wipe, pare, peel and core two large apples, cut
in slices and in small pieces. Chop one cup walnut meats, mix celery, apple and nut
meats, and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Put one tablespoonful Tomato Jelly
mixture in each individual mold. Then add vegetable and nut mixture and cover
with Tomato Jelly mixture. Chill, turn from molds and garnish with watercress.
we
Knox
MARSHMALLOWS
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains salt.
1 cups water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 cups fine granulated sugar.
Soak gelatine in one-half the water five minutes. Put remaining water and
sugar in saucepan, bring to the boiling point and let boil until syrup will spin a thread
when dropped from tip of spoon. Add soaked gelatine and let stand until partially
cooled; then add salt and flavoring. Beat until mixture becomes white and thick.
Pour into granite pans, thickly dusted with powdered sugar, having mixture
one inch in depth. Let stand in a cool place until thoroughly chilled. Turn on a
board, cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar. This recipe makes about one
hundred marshmallows. Nuts, chocolate, fruit juices in place of part of the water,
or candied fruits chopped may be added-or the plain ones rolled in grated cocoa-
nut before being sugared. Dates stuffed with this confection are delicious.
FIG BARS
2 envelopes Knox Gelatine.
1/2 cup chopped blanched almonds.
2 cups cold water.
1 orange.
2 cups sugar.
1 lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of the lemon
1/2 pound figs.
flavoring found in Acidulated pack-
3 tablespoonfuls sherry wine.
age dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls cold
1/4 cup chopped walnut meats.
water.
Soak gelatine in one cup of the cold water ten minutes. Force figs through a
food chopper, add juice of lemon, juice of orange and grated rind of orange, bring to
the boiling point and let simmer ten minutes. Put sugar and remaining water in
saucepan and when sugar is dissolved add soaked gelatine. Bring to the boiling
point and let boil ten minutes; then add fig mixture and boil ten minutes, stirring
constantly. Remove from range, add nut meats and sherry wine. Pour into shallow
pan, first dipped in cold water, and let stand over night. Cut in pieces two and one-
half inches by one-half inch. Roll in powdered sugar.
GINGER CRYSTALS
1 envelope Knox Gelatine.
1 cup boiling vater.
1 cup cold water.
1/2 cupcrystallized ginger, cut in small pieces.
2 cups granulated sugar.
1 tablespoonfu lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and boiling water in sauce-
pan, place on range, and when sugar is dissolved add soaked gelatine. Bring to
boiling point and let boil fifteen minutes. Remove from range and add lemon juice
or one-half teaspoonful lemon flavoring found in the Acidulated package, dissolvedin
one tablespoonful cold water and crystallized ginger. Turn into pan dipped in cold
water, having mixture three-fourths inch in depth. Let stand over night, cut in ob-
long shapes, roll in fine granulated sugar and let stand to crystallize.
COCOANUT FUDGE
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk.
3 tablespoonfuls cold water.
1/2 tablespoonful butter.
1 cup shredded cocoanut.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put sugar and milk in saucepan, bring
to boiling point and let boil until when tried in cold water a soft ball may be formed.
Remove from range, add soaked gelatine, butter and vanilla. Beat until creamy,
add cocoanut and turn into a buttered pan.
CHOCOLATE FUDGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup chopped nut meats, preferably
13 cups milk.
English walnuts or pecans.
11 squares unsweetened chocolate.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
21 cups sugar.
Soak gelatine in two-thirds cup cold milk ten minutes. Bring sugar and re-
maining milk to boiling point, add melted chocolate and soaked gelatine, and let
boil fifteen minutes. Remove from range, stir until it thickens, add nut meats
and vanilla. Turn into pan, first dipped in cold water, let stand until cool, cut in
squares and roll in powdered sugar.
26
Knox
PEANUT DAINTIES
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup boiling water.
cup cold water.
2 cups chopped roasted peanuts.
2 cups light brown sugar.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and boiling water in sauce-
pan, and when sugar is dissolved add gelatine, bring to the boiling point and let boil
fifteen minutes. Remove from range and add one cup peanuts and one tablespoonful
lemon juice, or one-half teaspoonful of the lemon flavoring found in the Acidulated
package, soaked in one tablespoonful cold water. Turn into pan, first dipped in cold
water, having mixture three-fourths inch in depth. Let stand over night, cut in
squares and roll in ground peanuts.
MINT PASTE
1} envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Green coloring.
2 cups sugar.
4 tablespoonfuls crême de menthe.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in two-thirds cup cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and two-
thirds cup water in saucepan, bring to the boiling point, add soaked gelatine and let
boil twenty minutes. Remove from fire, add remaining ingredients and color
green. Turn into a pan (first rinsed in cold water) to one inch in thickness. When
set, remove to board, cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar.
CHRISTMAS CANDY SUPREME
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup Sultana raisins.
2 squares chocolate.
cup candied cherries.
3 cups sugar.
cup chopped English walnut meats.
1 cup sour cream.
teaspoonful cinnamon.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls cold water ten minutes. Melt chocolate in
saucepan placed in larger saucepan containing boiling water. Add sugar and sour
cream alternately, while stirring Constantly. Bring to the boiling point and let boil
until mixture will form a soft b. when tried in cold water. Remove from fire, add
gelatine, and when it has dissolved add cinnamon, raisins, cherries, cut in small
pieces, and nut meats. Beat until creamy and turn into buttered tins, having
mixture about inches deep. Cool, remove from pan and cut in slices for serving
The mixture may be put in individual tins, and when unmolding insert in top of each
a sprig of holly. Omit fruit in this recipe and you have Somerville Fudge.
COFFEE CHOCOLATE FUDGE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup strong boiled coffee.
2 squares chocolate.
2 tablespoonf uls butter.
2 cups white sugar.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 cup brown sugar.
1 teaspoonful vinegar.
teaspoonful salt.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls cold water ten minutes. Melt chocolate in
saucepan placed in larger saucepan containing boiling water. Add sugar and coffee
alternately while stirring constantly. Place saucepan containing mixture in direct
contact with stove, bring to the boiling point, add butter and let boil until mixture
will form a soft ball when tried in cold water. Add gelatine and beat until creamy.
Add vanilla and vinegar and turn into a slightly buttered pan. Cool and cut in squares.
TURKISH DELIGHT
1} envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Juice of one orange.
t cup cold water.
Juice of one lemon.
2 cups granulated sugar.
1 tablespoonfu rum.
1/2 cup boiling water.
Red coloring.
Grated rind of one orange.
cup chopped nut meats.
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and boiling water in sauce-
pan, bring to the boiling point, add soaked gelatine and let boil twenty minutes.
Add flavorings and coloring, strain, add nut meats and turn into a bread pan (first
dipped in cold water) to one inch in depth. Let stand until firm, remove to board.
cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar. Therum and nut meats may be omitted.
The Delta's Best Cook Book
TEA LEMONADE
1 1/2 cups boiling water
3 tsp. tea
3/4 cup lemon juice
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups dry ginger ale
Ice
Pour boiling water over tea. Let stand 5 minutes. Strain
and cool. Add lemon juice and sugar, stir until sugar is dissolved,
Add ginger ale and ice as desired.
PUNCH
2 46 oz. cans orange juice
1 46 oz. can grape juice
1 cup lemon juice
2 No. 2 cans pineapple juice
1 cup cherries
1 pint strong tea
Mix and pour into punch bowl over ice.
Mrs. A. E. Lancaster
EGG NOG
6 heaping tablespoons sugar
6 egg yolks
Cream together and let stand 1 hour. or so.
Pour 1/2 cup
whiskey over yolks while stirring. Add 1 pint whipped cream to this
mixture. Fold in six stiffly beaten egg whites to which has been
added 2 tablespoons of sugar. When served sprinkle top with nut
meg. Serve with cake.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
EGG-NOG
1 quart Eggnog or Vanilla ice cream
1 pint whipped cream
1/2 pint whiskey
Nut meg
Put ice cream in large bowl, stir in whiskey; fold in whipped
cream, sprinkle with nut neg. Serve at once.
Church Stallings
Page 2
The Delta's Best Cook Book
PLANTERS PUNCH (One Serving)
Juice of 1/2 Lemon
2 pineapple sticks
1 teaspoon sugar
2 cherries
1 jigger rum
Shovel ice to fill glass
Sprig of mint
LEMON GINGER PUNCH
1 quart lemon ice
3/4 quart white wine
2 quarts ginger ale
Mix ginger ale and wine, add lemon ice. When nearly melted serve.
HOT BUTTERED RUM
1 cube sugar
1 to 2 tablespoons rum
1 pat butter 1/2 oz.
Pinch of cloves and allspice
Place sugar in tall glass. Dissolve in a little hot water. Add
spices and rum, fill glasses with hot water and float butter on top..
CLOVER LEAF COCKTAIL
Use large bar glass
1 part gin
1/2 part grenadine or 2 strawberries (sweeten and crush)
Juice of 1/2 lime
White of one egg
Shake and strain into cocktail glasses.
WHISKEY SOUR
Use large bar glasses
1 1/2 tablesnoons sugar (dissolve in a little charged water)
Juice of 1/2 lemon and 1/2 orange
1 wine glass whiskey
Fill glass full of shovel ice. Shake well and strain into glass.
Serve dressed with berries in season.
Mr. Charles Ariff
Page 3
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Salada
SALAD DRESSING (From Mexico)
1 1/2 Cups Wesson or Olive Oil
1/2 Cup Sugar
2 Cans Tomatoe Soup
1 Tablespoon salt
1 1/2 Cups Cider Vinegar
2 Tablespoons Paprika
3 Tablespoons Horseradish Mustard
1 Grated Onion (medium size)
2 Tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce
1 Clove Garlic
Juice of one lemon
Mix dry ingredients and add to liquids, which have been
previously mixed. Whip with rotary egg beater. Keep closed tightly
in fruit jar in refrigerator. Will keep indefinitely. Specially nice
for Avacado salad.
Mrs. Jessie Lawson
APPLE SALAD
3 large carrots (grated)
1 apple chopped fine
2 pieces celery
1/2 Cup raisins
Mix with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce.
Mrs. Orville Cadenhead
CELERY SEED DRESSING
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 teaspoons mustard
2 teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon onion juice
2/3 cup vinegar
2 cups salad oil
Combine sugar, mustard, salt, onion juice and 1/2 of the vine-
gar.
Beat well. Then gradually add the oil alternately with the
remaining vinegar, beat until a stable emulsion has been formed. Add
the celery seed. Especially nice over grapefruit or Avacado Salad.
Carmen Pearson
Page 5
The Delta's Best Cook Book
POTATO SALAD
2 lbs. potatoes
Juice of two lemons
1 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon red pepper
2 teaspoons salt
1/4 cup of wesson oil
Boil potatoes until tender. Peel and cube potatoes. Then
make dressing with rest of ingredients, mashing garlic with salt and
pepper until real fine, add lemon juice and oil slowly. Pour over
potatoes. Something different.
C. W. Haik
PARTY SALAD
1 pound marshmallows
1 cup nuts
8 slices pineapple or 2 cups crushed (drained)
1/2 pint cream
1 small bottle maraschino cherries, cut in halves.
Cut marshmallows in quarters, mix with diced pineapple,
cherries, well-whipped cream, and last, chopped pecans. Mix and
store in covered bowl in refrigerator. Will keep three days. This
can be used as a desert with Angel cake.
Mrs. W. H. Bell
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
1 can fruit cocktail
6 to 10 marshmallows (chopped)
3 to 4 tablespoons mayonnaise
1/2 cup cream (whipped)
Mix all ingredients well and freeze. Serves 8.
Mrs. Orville Cadenhead
WELLS FUNERAL HOME
AMBULANCE SERVICE
PICTURE FRAMING
326 MAIN
PHONE 4
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
MT
107
107
107
Page 6
The Delta's Best Cook Book
HOT POTATO SALAD
Cook 6 medium sized potatoes in the jackets, peel while hot,
slice into warm serving dish with alternate layers of spring onions, or
spanish onions which have been sliced and soaked in cold water.
Sprinkle each layer with salt, celery seed and pepper to taste. Pour
over this the following dressing:
Fry 4 strips bacon, or use 4 tablespoons drippings. As the
bacon is done remove from fat, crumble over potatoe mixture, and
to the remaining fat in the pan add-
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon prepared mustard
1/4 cup sugar, brown preferred
3/4 cup vinegar, let all boil up stirring constantly, pour over salad and
serve at once. With stuffed eggs, sandwiches and coffee a hearty
meal. Nice for emergency company.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
CRANBERRY MOLD
1 pkg. lemon gelatin or jello
1/2 cup crushed pineapple
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1 1/2 cups boiling water
1/2 cup finely cut celery
1 cup thick cranberry sauce (sweetened)
Dissolve the gelatin in the boiling water. Cool. When slight-
ly thickened add lemon juice, celery, pineapple and cranberry sauce.
Turn in molds and chill. Serve on lettuce. Garnish with mayon-
naise mixed with a little minced green pepper.
Mrs. Vernon Hammond, Jr.
TOMATO ASPIC
To one can Campbell's tomato soup add equal amount of
water, heat to nearly boiling point. Have ready one envelope Knox
gelatin, dissolve in small amount of cold water. Add this to soup
mixture and let cool, then add 1/2 cup celery, chopped fine, 1/4 cup of
sliced stuffed olives, a bit of scraped onion, and salt and cayenne pep-
per
to
taste.
Pour in molds to chill. Serve on lettuce with mayon-
naise.
Mrs. S. F. Witherspoon
Page 7
The Dolta's Best Cook Book
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
2 pkgs. Philadelphia cream cheese
1 can fruit cocktail
1 cup white raisins
1 tablespoon sugar
pinch of salt
Drain fruit cocktail.
Mash cheese and whip with juice from
cocktail; add sugar, salt. When thoroughly mixed add fruit and put
in tray to freeze. Serves 5.
Katherine Reilly
PINEAPPLE CHEESE FROZEN SALAD
1/2 pound American cheese
1 can No. 2 crushed pineapple
1 small bottle red cherries
1/2 cup mayonnaise
Mix grated cheese, pineapple, mayonnaise and cut cherries;
put in molds and freeze for 24 hours; serve on lettuce leaf with may-
onnaise or top with whipped cream and cherries.
Caroline Worthington
MOLDED CHEESE SALAD
1 cup grated yellow cheese
1/2 cup cream, whipped
1/4 cup chopped pimento
1/2 cup vinegar
Salt, cayenne, to taste
Few drops tobasco
2 level tablespoons knox gelatine
1/2 cup warm water
Mix cream, cheese, gelatine dissolved in water, etc. Mix .
quickly, pack in freezing tray. Slice, serve on lettuce with mayonnaise.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
4 egg yolks
1 can diced pineapple
4 tbsp. sugar
1 pt. whipped cream
4 tbsp. Tarragon Vinegar
1 box marshmallows (quartered).
Beat egg yolks until light, add sugar and vinegar and cook
in
double boiler until thick. When cold add cream, mix with other
ingredients. Pour into mold. When frozen, serve on lettuce leaf with
mayonnaise.
Page 8
The Delta's Best Cook Book
FRUIT SALAD DRESSING
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons butter
Blend flour with enough cold milk, to make a smooth paste,
add rest of the ingredients, stir constantly over fire until it boils and
thickens. Add juice of two lemons. When cold fold in 1/2 pint whip-
ped cream. Good on any fruit salad.
PINEAPPLE SALAD
1 can sliced pineapple (drained)
Juice of 1 lemon
1/2 can condensed milk
Grated cheese
Squeeze juice from lemon and alternate with milk. Whipping
until thick. Pour over pineapple slice and fill center with grated
cheese.
Mrs. Wm. Taggart
Sam Stein
- Department Store -
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
Page 9
The Delta's Best Cook Book
30
A
EGG PLANT (Baked)
2 cups cooked, peeled and mashed egg plant
Salt to taste
2 tablespoons butter or oleo
Dash of pepper
3/4 cup bread crumb
1 beaten egg
1 tablespoon minced onion
2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
Mix ingredients together and place in greased casserole. Place
casserole in shallow pan of water and bake slowly until fairly firm.
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over the top if desired. (This same
recipe can be used for squash).
SPINACH RING, FROMAGE
3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons flour
1 cup milk
1/2 pound cheese, grated
1 1/2 cups chopped, cooked spinach 1 1/2 cups bread crumbs
3 eggs
1 teaspoon salt, pepper to taste
Melt butter, stir in flour, add milk, stirring until it thickens.
Add cheese, remove from heat and stir until cheese is melted. Add
well-drained spinach, bread crumbs, eggs and seasonings. Pack into
a well-oiled mold and bake in slow oven until firm. Cheese may
be left out and small onion chopped and added.
(Squash, broccoli or asparagus may be used in the place of spinach.)
Page 10
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CABBAGE ROLLS
1 1/2cups rice (uncooked)
1/2 teaspoon pepper
Small can tomato paste (or canned tomatoes)
1 teaspoon salt
1 large cabbage (separate leaves, remove hard center stem and boil
leaves 10 minutes)
2 1/2 cups lamb or pork
Combine ingredients except cabbage and place a little on each
leaf. Roll and arrange in deep pot. Add enough water to barely
cover the cabbage rolls. Season with 1 teaspoon salt. one clove of
garlic, 1 teaspoon dried mint leaves, juice of two lemons. Add this
during the last fifteen minutes of cooking period. Cooking time about
one hour or until rice is done.
Mrs. Dorothy Ariff
STUFFED SQUASH
Select small tender squash
2 cups veal or lamb
Salt and pepper
1/2 can of No. 2 tomatoes
1 cup rice (uncooked)
Dash of allspice and cinnamon
Cut top of squash. Scoop out as much of the pulp as possible.
Fill with stuffing and arrange in a pot. Add two tablespoons of
tomato paste, teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper and water to
cover. Cook until done (about one hour.)
Mrs. N. E. Ariff
SMOTHERED SNAPBEANS
3 lbs. snap beans
1 onion
1 lb. lamb
2 cups canned tomatoes
Cook meat until almost brown add onions and snap beans.
Cover and smother until snap beans are tender, add tomatoes, salt
and pepper to taste and water to cover. Cook until meat is tender.
Serve with steam rice.
Mrs. N. E. Ariff
ACORN SQUASH
Select small size acorn squash (allowing 1/2 per person). Cut
in half and remove seed, place in shallow baking pan and keep 1 inch
water around squash at all times while baking. In each half, place
1 patty of butter and 1 tablespoons of water. When done add 1 tea-
spoon of sugar, 2 teaspoons of syrup and sprinkle with cinnamon.
Baste with liquid that forms in center of squash. Baking time 1 hour.
Frances Phillips
Page 11
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ACORN SQUASH WITH PINEAPPLE
Use baked acorn squash and scoop out the pulp. To a cup of
pulp add 1/2 cup of drained crushed pineapple and 6 chopped marsh-
mallows, place in hot oven until marshmallows melt and then sprinkle
with sugar. Baking time: 15 minutes.
Mrs. A. E. Lancaster
STUFFED BELL PEPPER
1 cup cooked rice
1 can Italian gravy
1/2 cup grated cheese
1 cup potted meat
6 bell peppers (scalded to remove skin)
Mix rice, Italian gravy and potted meat-Stuff peppers-Top
with cheese. Cook 15 or 20 minutes or until brown on top.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
SCALLOPED CORN
3 cups fresh or canned corn
3 eggs beaten
1 cup milk
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons butter
Buttered bread crumbs
Combine ingredients. Pour into buttered casserole. Lay
strips of pimento or green pepper across top. Sprinkle with buttered
bread crumbs. Bake uncovered in a slow oven.
POTATOES AU GRATIN
8 medium sized potatoes
2 cups medium white sauce
1/3 cup grated cheese
1/4 eup bread cubes
Pare potatoes; cook in 1/2 cup water until tender. Cut in
cubes. Place layer of potatoes in buttered baking dish; cover with
cheese and white sauce. Place the second layer of potatoes; cheese
and white sauce, with buttered bread crumbs on top. Bake one hour
at 350 degrees.
Page 12
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BAKED ASPARAGUS
1 can green asparagus
Grated cheese
3 hard boiled eggs
Large lump butter
1 tablespoonful flour
1 cup milk
Salt, pepper and paprika to taste
Melt butter, stir in flour, salt, pepper and paprika and add
milk gradually until you have cream sauce of right consistency. Place
part of the asparagus in baking dish, then layer of eggs, then cheese.
Repeat until all ingredients are used. Pour over cream sauce, and
bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
CORN PUDDING
2 cups stewed corn
2 cups milk
3 eggs
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon minced onion
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup minced green pepper
1 minced pimento
1 teaspoon salt
Beat eggs slightly. Add milk, sugar and salt. Combine corn
with other ingredients and add to milk mixture. Mix
well.
Turn
into greased casserole and bake in moderate oven (325 degrees) one
hour.
Mrs. Wiley Mock
PIGCLY
The Delta's Best Cooks
TO
Depend on
Piggly Wiggly Stores
For all their Baking needs
WICGLY
Every-Day Low Prices
Complete Assortments
Courteous Service
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 13
The Delta's Best Cook Book
company
GYPSY CASSEROLE
1 1/2 inch slice ham
4 potatoes
6 carrots
4 small onions
4 turnips
1/2 cup light molasses
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Place ham in bottom of large greased casserole dish. Pare
and cut vegetables in half; arrange over ham. Combine molasses,
milk and paprika; pour over vegetables, cover and bake in moderate
oven (350) for 2 hours. Uncover last half hour.
TUNA FISH CASSEROLE WITH PRETZELS
1 can condensed mushroom soup
1/2 cup milk
1 1/4 cups flaked tuna fish
1 tablespoon diced green pepper
2 tablespoons diced onion
1/2 cup diced celery
1/4 teaspoon salt
dash of pepper
1 cup crushed pretzels
Whole pretzels
Mix together all ingredients except the pretzels. Place a
layer of the fish mixture in the bottom of the greased casserole dish.
Sprinkle a layer of pretzels on top. Alternate layers until casserole
is filled, ending with fish mixture. Top with whole pretzels. Bake
in a 350 degree oven for 35 or 40 minutes.
FOR A TABLE SETTING THAT WILL BRING
EVERY HOSTESS THRILLING PRAISE
Wallace Arnold
REGISTERED JEWELER - A.G.S.
Greenville, Mississippi
SDIAMONDS-WATCHES-SILVER-CHINA-CRYSTAL-PICTURES-GIFTS
Page 14
The Delta's Best Cook Book
TUNA FISH CASSEROLE
1 can tuna fish
1 can condensed mushroom soup
2 cups crushed potato chips
Put tuna fish, mushroom soup and crushed potato chips in a
buttered baking dish in alternate layers in order named, ending with
crushed chips. Bake in a moderate oven about 25 minutes.
Mrs. Wiley Mock
SPAGHETTI, CHEESE AND EGG CASSEROLE
1
1 box spaghetti
1/2 lb. yellow cheese
6 hard boiled eggs
1 cup white sauce
Cook spaghetti in salted water until tender. Place a layer of
spaghetti in casserole, then a layer of sliced and seasoned eggs, then a
layer of thinly sliced cheese. Repeat until all ingredients have been
used, having cheese as the last layer. Pour the white sauce over this
place in oven and bake until cheese is melted thoroughly and it is
slightly brown on top. Serve hot.
Carmen Pearson.
EGGPLANT IN CASSEROLE
1 medium eggplant
2 eggs
1 cup cracker crumbs or 1 1/2 slices of white bread
Salt to taste
1 small onion, chopped fine
3/4 cup milk
Peel and slice eggplant, place in salt water (not to strong) for
at least 30 minutes (longer if time allows). Place saucer on top of
eggplant so it will be under water. After soaking drain, add fresh
water, boil until tender, drain well and mash or cut into smali pieces.
Beat eggs and add to eggplant, then add cracker crumbs. Thin mix-
ture with milk, be sure it is not too thick before baking. Salt to taste
and add the onion if desired, but not necessary. Butter a deep baking
dish, dot with butter, or a tablespoonful of butter can be melted and
stirred in before baking. Bake in not too hot oven 15 or 20 minutes,
or until brown and firm.
Mary L. Cook
Page 15
The Delta's Best Cook Book
DINNER EN CASSEROLE
2/3 cup English peas
2 medium white potatoes, sliced
2 white onions, sliced
3 pre-cooked carrots or parsnips, sliced
1 cup coarsly chopped meat, 1 cup broth or gravy (steak)
Place in buttered casserole, cover with stock or water, sprinkle
with salt and pepper, and over all, place a thin pastry crust, prick
with fork and brush with melted butter. Bake in medium oven (350
degrees fahrenheit for 45 minutes or until potatoes are done.
ASPARAGUS CASSEROLE
In greased casserole place one layer each of the following:
Asparagus tips
Sliced hard-boiled eggs
Grated American cheese
Cracker crumbs
Moisten with milk, season with salt, pepper and butter.
Sprinkle grated cheese over top. Bake in moderate oven until cheese
is melted and golden brown.
Mrs. Frank Baldwin
WALCOTT & STEELE
23M
ADAPTED SEED
Phone 1625
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
Page 16
The Delta's Best Cook Book
HUSH PUPPIES (To be served with fried fish)
2 cups meal
1/4 cup crisco
1 teaspoon salt, hot water to make a firm mixture
Make in small pones, roll in meal and fry in deep fat, where
you have finished frying fish.
Minced or chopped onion may be added to the above mixture
if desired, before cooking.
SPOON CORN BREAD
1 cup boiling water
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 tablespoon butter
1 cup milk
2 eggs
Slowly add the cornmeal to the boiling water, stirring con-
stantly. Cook until thick. Remove from the fire and add the salt and
butter. Then add the milk and beaten egg yolks. Then fold in the
beaten egg whites and place in a greased shallow baking dish.
Bake at 375 degrees for 50 minutes.
Mrs. Rife Chaney, Jr.
NEVER FAIL-Ice Box Rolls
1 quart sweet milk
1/2 cup sugar
3/4 cup shortening
1 yeast cake
Place together in good size boiler, sweet milk, sugar and
shortening, bring to scalding point. Cool this mixture and add one
fleishmans yeast cake which has been previously dissolved in 3/4 cup
luke warm water. Mix enough sifted flour to make a stiff batter and
let rise, when batter has thoroughly risen add more flour in which has
been sifted 1/2 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon
baking powder. Use enough flour to make a soft dough. Make out
rolls and let rise to bake. This will keep in refrigerator a week or
longer.
Mrs. Dudley Clower
Page 20
The Delta's Best Cook Book
PARKER HOUSE ROLLS
2 cups milk
1 cup water (lukewarm)
2 eggs
3 teaspoons salt
1 yeast cake
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup shortening
10 to 12 cups flour
1 tablespoon sugar
Scald milk, add water. When cooled to lukewarm, add yeast
and 1 tablespoon sugar, which has been dissolved in 1/4 cup water, add
this to cooled milk and water, then add butter and sugar which has
been creamed, slightly beaten eggs, salt and enough flour to make a
thin batter. Let rise in warm place in a covered bowl about 2 hours.
Then add balance of flour and salt. Knead into a smooth dough, let
rise until doubled in bulk, then make into rolls and let rise for 1 hour.
Bake at 400 degrees F. This will keep in ice box for a day or two.
ROSELLA'S
HOME APPLIANCES
PHONE 1488
708 WASHINGTON
Frigidaire
Sales and Service
Page 21
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ICE BOX ROLLS
1 yeast cake
6 tablespoons sugar
2 cups lukewarm water
3 tablespoons shortening (melted)
1 egg (beaten)
6 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons salt
Soften yeast cake in water. Let stand 5 minutes. Add salt,
egg, sugar and shortening. Add flour little at a time, beating well
each time. Knead dough until smooth. Cover with warm damp cloth
and let stand 2 hours. Knead down or make into rolls and put into ice
box. Let rise 2 hours before baking. Bake in hot oven 10 minutes.
Mrs. Ben Rogers
WAFFLES (From a friend in Sweden)
3/4 cup flour, sifted with 1/4 teaspoon salt.
5 eggs, adding one egg at the time to the flour until a smooth batter
is achieved. Beat well, then add one cup of heavy cream and one
half cup full of light cream, beat all very thoroughiy with a rotary egg
beater. Bake in a hot waffle iron until golden brown. Waffles should
not be hard when done.
Mrs. Jessie Lawson
BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLECAKES
1 cup stale bread crumbs
1/2 cup water
3/4 cup milk
1 cup flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 tabiespoons shortening (melted)
1 teaspoon sugar
Soak breadcrumbs in water 10 minutes, add milk. Sift to-
gether flour, baking powder and salt; add to bread mixture; add beat-
en eggs and shortening; mix well. Bake on slightly greased hot
griddle.
SWEET POTATO BISCUITS
1 cup mashed sweet potatoe
2/3 cup milk
4 tablespoons melted butter
1 1/4 cups flour
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Mix and sift dry ingredients, and cut in fat, add milk then add
potatoes. Smooth into dough. Roll, cut into small biscuits. Bake
in hot oven 10 to 15 minutes.
Mrs. Church Stallings
Page 22
The Delta's Best Cook Book
WAFFLES
1 large heaping kitchen spoon of lard
1 large heaping kitchen spoon of sugar
1 whole egg
2 rounding teaspoons baking powder
Salt to taste
2 level cups of sifted flour (not packed in cup but put in lightly)
Cream lard and sugar well, then break the whole egg into the
creamed lard and continue to cream. Add the flour and milk by
degrees. Using enough milk to make a thin batter. The last thing
fold in the baking powder. This recipe may be used for muffins but
don't make the batter as thin as for waffles.
Bettie Archer
CHOCOLATE WAFFLES
1/2 cup butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 eggs
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 oz. chocolate (melted)
1 1/4 cups milk
1 1/2 cup flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon vanila
Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs to melted choco-
late. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately with milk. Bake on
hot waffle iron.
FLUFFY WAFFLES
2 well beaten egg yolks
2 stiffly beaten egg whites
1 1/2 cups milk (sweet)
1/4 teaspoons salt
2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
6 tablespoons melted shortening
Mix egg yolks and milk; add flour, sifted with salt and baking
powder, then slightly cooled shortening. Beat smooth, fold in egg
whites. Bake on ungreased waffle iron.
Makes from 4 to 6 waffles.
Mrs. Paul Bauer
Page 23
The Delta's Best Cook Book
"CRACKLING BREAD"
1 cup cracklings diced or ground
1 1/2 cups cornmeal
3/4 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon soda
salt to taste
1 cup sour milk
Cracklings are pieces of meat remaining after the lard has
been rendered from the pork.
Mix and sift together the dry ingredients; add the milk and
stir in the cracklings. Form into cakes and place in greased baking
pan. Bake in hot oven for 30 minutes.
Mrs. Church Stallings
BANANA BREAD
1/2 cup shortening
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
3 bananas
1 cup nuts
1 teaspoon soda
2 cups sifted flour
Mix like cake and add mashed bananas last. Cook in loaf
pan in a slow oven about 1 hour.
DM
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
SOUR MILK CORN MEAL WAFFLES
2 cups corn
meal
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
About 1 1/2 cups buttermilk
2 eggs
4 tablespoons melted butter
Quality of meal will determine the amount of milk. Sift dry
ingredients together. Add milk and melted fat. Beat until light and
add to meal mixture. Bake in waffle iron, preheated to same temper-
ature as for plain waffles.
Page 24
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Meats
STUFFED PORK CHOPS
4 Lean Pork Chops
Salt and pepper
1 green pepper, cut in rings
1 large onion, sliced
2 cups tomato juice
8 tabiespoons boiled rice
1 tablespoon flour
Brown chops in hot fat; Season; place in baking pan, top each
chop with a green pepper ring, a slice of onion, and 2 tablespoons rice.
Brown flour in fat used for chops and add tomato juice. If too thick
add a little water. Pour over chops and bake slowly about 1 hour.
Serves 4. If desired, Mushroom soup may be used in place of tomato
juice.
Mrs. Fred Krutz
TAMALE PIE
1 lb. Ground Meat
1 can Tomatoes
1 can Tamales
3 large Onions
4 parts Garlic
1 tablespoon Butter
Salt, Pepper and Chili Powder to taste.
Take two skillets; in one put meat, and cook until it crumbles.
In other, put Butter and chopped Onions, and fry until onions are
brown. Take tomatoes and mash them. Mix all ingredients to-
gether and let simmer 2 hours.
TAMALE PIE CRUST
Mix 2 cups meal and 2 teaspoons salt with 6 cups boiling
water, and cook over low heat about 15 minutes, stirring frequently.
Line sides and bottom of greased baking dish with 1 inch layer of
mush. Pour in meat filling. Add another layer of mush, and then
another of meat and cover all with mush. Bake in moderate slow
oven 1 1/2 hours. Serves 6 to
8.
Mrs. Innocent Loyacano.
Page 28
The Delta's Best Cook Book
MEAT LOAF
1 lb. ground round steak
3 eggs
1/4 lb. salt pork ground with steak
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup hot sweet milk
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 cup cracker crumbs
1/4 teaspoon paprika
1 small onion
Mix well, adding beaten egg whites last. Put a row of stuffed
olives through the center and a strip of bacon on the top of the loaf.
Bake about 1 hour and 15 minutes in a loaf pan.
Miss Carmen Pearson
HAM LOAF
1 1/2 lbs. raw smoked ham
1 1/2 lbs. raw fresh ham, grind both together, add:-
12 crackers crumbled fine
2 whole eggs beaten
1 cup bread crumbs
pepper to taste, no salt
Form into loaf mixing with 1 can campbell's tomato soup,
reserving half of soup to pour over top. Bake in a very slow oven
2
hours. Serve hot or cold. Good with baked beans, slaw and
brown bread.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
HAM BALLS
3/4 1b. ground ham shank
1/4 lb. ground lean pork
2/3 cup crushed cornflakes
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1/3 cup milk
1 egg
Grind meat, mix with cereal, sugar, cloves, milk and egg.
Shape into balls. Place in flat open pan. Bake in 350 F. oven 20
minutes. Serve with broiled peach halves.
Monis Lancaster
A. E. Lancaster
Phone 1617-J
Phone 1326-J
LANCASTER BROTHERS
General Contractors
Estimates Furnished
MT
MY
MIT
MIT
MT
MT
MIT
YY
Page 29
The Delta's Best Cook Book
STUFFED SPARERIBS
1 1/2 lbs. spareribs
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup chopped onion
1/2 cup chopped celery
2 cups soft bread crumbs
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Brown onions in fat. Add celery, bread crumbs, salt, pepper
and 1/2 cup water. Place dressing in baking pan and cover with
seasoned spareribs. Bake uncovered in 350° F. oven for 1 1/2 hours.
Serve with broiled tomatoes.
Mrs. Church Stallings
TO CORN BEEF
5 lb. solid piece lean beef
Rub in 1 tablespoon salt peter (purchase at drug store)
1/2 cup salt
2 tablespoons garlic
2 cloves garlic
2 tablespoons vinegar
1 tablespoon black pepper
Put in crock and weight down cover. Set in refrigerator 5
days, turning it over every day. Then cover with water and boil
slowly until tender. Serve hot with boiled potatoes, creamed cab-
bage, and horseradish sauce.
Horseradish Sauce
To one cup good cream sauce add 1 tablespoon worcester-
shire, 1 teaspoon prepared mustard, 1 tablespoon prepared horseradish,
black pepper to taste. If you have a pepper grinder and can grind
whole pepper so much the better. Freshly ground horseradish is
best too if you can get it in the market.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
CRANBERRY HAM SLICE
3 cups raw cranberries
2 slices ham (3/4 to 1 inch thick)
1 1/2 cups strained honey
2 tablespoons whole cloves
Mix cranberries and honey, gash edges of fat on ham. Place
one slice ham on baking dish. Spread the center with a mixture of
cranberries and honey. Top with second slice. Cover with remain-
ing cranberries and honey mixture. Garnish with whole cloves.
Bake until done in a moderate oven-basting often with liquid in dish.
Page 30
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BRUNSWICK STEW (Serves 15 generously)
2 hens
8 large potatoes
1 1/2 lbs. beef and pork
1 can corn
3 cans tomatoes
1 stalk celery
1 lb. onions
Pinch of chili powder
salt, pepper, worcestershire to taste
Cook hen and meat together until tender and shred-Put back
in broth-Add onions, celery, tomatoes and seasonings-Cook until
it is thick-Add potatoes and when they are almost done, add the corn.
Be sure and stir to prevent scorching. Serve with dill pickle, hot
buttered rolls, coffee and apple pie.
Mr. D. D. Gorton (Travelers Club)
CORNED BEEF (Wonderful)
8 lbs. Brisket (boned)
1 gal water
8 oz. salt
8 oz. sugar
1 tablespoon pickling spice
1 clove garlic (chopped)
1 tablespoon salt peter or freezum pickle
Mix all ingredients together-Add meat to this mixture and
let set in refrigerator for 15 days-Then take out and boil till tender.
Sprinkle with paprika and brown sugar.
Mr. D. D. Gorton
CHILI MAC
1 can tomatoes
1 medium onion
1 can chili with beans
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 lb. hamburger meat
salt and pepper to taste
1 package vermicelli
Cook onions in a couple tablespoons drippings or shortening,
add meat which has been seasoned with 1 teaspoon salt and pepper to
taste. Stir until meat is thoroughly browned, add rest of ingredients,
simmer slowly one hour. Serve over vermicelli which has been
cooked and well drained.
Hot buttered french bread, a green salad,
and you have a good meal.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
Page 31
The Delta's Best Cook Book
EMERGENCY STEAK
1 lb. ground beef
1/2 cup milk
1 cup cereal flakes
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1 onion (finely chopped)
Mix all ingredients together. Shape like a T-Bone steak,
One inch thick. Broil in broiler from 8 to 15 minutes. After meat
is brown on one side, turn and brown on other side.
BROILED STEAK
Place steaks in broiler or pan under low flame-When half
done, salt and pepper. Baste with butter, lemon juice and wooster
sauce.
Mrs. Tom Hood
Compliments of
C. E. JORDAN E CO.
THE DELTA'S OLDEST & LARGEST FURNITURE DEALERS
LEONARD ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS
EMERSON & SPARTON RADIOS
ZYBNAUT
Representing Americas Finest Lines of
HIGH GRADE FURNITURE
Stores in
GREENVILLE & CLEVELAND
Page 32
The Delta's Best Cook Book
SPANISH STEAK
3 lbs. round steak
1 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup flour
1 cup water
1/2 cup butter
1 can tomatoes (No. 2.)
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
4 large onions sliced
1 cup minced green pepper
1 tablespoon minced parsley
Beat the steak well with the back of a heavy knife or wood
potato masher. Cover with the seasoned flour and beat flour well into
the steak. Dust off excess flour. Brown meat in the butter. Add
remaining ingredients and cook until meat is tender.
Mrs. C. L. Switzer
CRANBERRY JELLY
2 cups cranberries
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
Put berries and water on and let boil until berries pop.
Add
sugar and cook until, sugar is melted-about five minutes. If you
wish it without the skins run through seive before adding sugar.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
HAPPY FEED STORE
"Where Your Dollar Buys More"
HAPPY FEEDS IN RED BALL BAGS
POULTRY SUPPLIES -- BABY CHICKS
HENS, TURKEYS, DUCKS, PHEASANTS
P. O. BOX 2714
PHONE 365
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
Page 33
The Delta's Best Cook Book
MEAT BALLS
1 pound ground meat
1 small onion chopped finely
1/2 cup finely chopped celery
1/4 cup finely chopped parsley
2 cloves garlie
1 egg
Salt and pepper to taste
Mix thoroughly
Make into balls and fry brown
TAROS
Remove meat balls from skillet and fry:
1 small onion chopped finely
1/2 cup celery chopped finely
2 cloves garlic chopped finely
1/4 cup parsley chopped finely
Add to mixture:
1 can thick tomato paste
1 1/2 pts. water
fur
Let this cook for ten minutes then add meat balls
Simmer slowly for three hours.
SPAGHETTI
When meat balls and gravy have cooked three hours boil
separately: 1/2 pound spaghetti in three quarts boiling water for 15
minutes or until done. Drain water from spaghetti and add the gravy.
Mrs. Joe Scoffield
CRANBERRY JELLY
4 cups cranberries
1 cup boiling water
2 cups sugar
Pick over and wash berries. Place in a stew pan with boiling
water. Boil until all berries have popped (about 10 minutes). Pour
into a seive-mash through as much pulp as possible. Add 2 cups
sugar, return to the fire, bring slowly to a boil stirring constantly so
that all sugar is dissolved. Pour into sterilized jars or glasses.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
Page 34
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BAKED DUCK (French Style)
3 ducks (picked, washed, and left to marinate in the wine bath
for at least 6 hours or overnight) stuff with dressing and bake in a
moderate oven 1 hour or until done.
Wine Bath
1 pint claret
Several cloves
Dash of all-spice
1 sliced onion
1 sliced carrot
Piece of celery
Sprig of thyme
Bayleaf
Mix well and place ducks in the mixture, turning them from
time to time so that all parts are marinated.
Use any dressing desired.
Geese, rabbits, birds, squabs, or pork roast is excellent pre-
pared the same way.
CHICKEN CROQUETTES
3 or 4 lb. Hen
3 or 4 limbs celery
2 or 3 sprigs parsley
1 egg
Juice of one lemon
Salt and pepper to taste
Boil chicken until done-then bone it. Grind chicken, celery
and parsley together-Beat egg and add lemon juice, salt and pepper.
Make a medium white sauce. Add to this mixture.
Put in ice box to chill. Shape into balls.
Dip in beaten
egg, then in cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat.
Mrs. John A. Metcalf
H. N. ALEXANDER & SONS
Building Material
Phones 74 & 75
Page 36
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CHICKEN PIE
2 1/2 to 3 pound hen
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 tablespoon onion
1/2 cup celery (chopped)
1 green pepper (chopped)
4 hard boiled eggs
2 tablespoons water
PIE CRUST
Boil chicken until tender with celery and onion, salt to taste.
Save stock from chicken (about 2 cups). Cut chicken into medium
size pieces. Add hard boiled eggs and green pepper. Make paste
of water and flour to thicken stock. Put into a deep dish and put
crust on top. Bake in oven until crust is brown. Serves six.
Mrs. Owen McCoy
SPANISH RICE AND CHICKEN
1 two pound chicken
2 sweet red peppers
2 bruised garlic cloves
4 tomatoes or 1/2 can
2 white medium onions
Salt to taste
1/2 cup cooking oil (olive)
1/4 lb. Rice, 1 Bay leaf
Cut up chicken as for frying, fry in oil in deep frying pan;
add garlic and cloves; cook chicken until tender and golden brown;
add onions and peppers cut in slices; continue cooking until onions are
part brown; add tomatoes skinned and quartered; add enough rice
water or stock to cover, salt to taste, lay bay leaf on top so it can be
removed later; cover and simmer until rice is done; add broth or water
as needed.
Mrs. Dorothy Bell Griffin
CHICKEN A LA KING
1 can cream mushroom soup
1 egg yolk
1 cup cooked diced chicken
1/2 cup top milk
1/2 cup pimento
Put soup in sauce pan, add milk gradually, stir, heat to boil-
ing add chicken and pimento, cut in strips; add egg yolk, diluted with
some sauce; serve on toast or in patty shells.
Mrs. Hugh Wiley
Page 37
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CHICKEN PIE
1 4 or 5 pound hen
6 to 12 hard cooked eggs
1/2 cup rice
Salt and pepper to taste
Pie pastry or biscuit dough
Cook chicken with any desired seasoning until well done.
Chop meat, grind skins and mix. Cook rice in one quart of broth.
Into baking dish place rice and broth, chopped eggs and chicken.
Cover top with pastry or small biscuit. Dot with butter and bake
until brown. If pie is dry, make incision and pour in some broth or
cream. Serves 12 to 15 persons.
Mrs. N. E. Wingate
BROILED CHICKEN
Select chicken weighing 1 1/2 to 1 3/4 pounds.
Dress and wash. Split down back in halves. Place in shal-
low pan. Baste chicken with 3 tablespoons melted butter. Sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Place under broiler, set at 500 degrees. Baste
with drippings every 10 minutes. Turn chicken after 25 minutes and
cook other side 25 minutes. Cooking time 50 minutes.
Mrs. A. E. Landcaster
CHICKEN SALAD
5 or 6 pound hen
1 dozen hard boiled eggs
1 large stalk of celery
Homemade mayonnaise
Dash of red pepper
Cook chicken till very tender with a little celery. Mash eggs
with fork while still warm to shred them. Put in refrigerator to cool.
Add rest of ingredients and mix well. Serves 15.
Mrs. Owen McCoy
Greenville Dairy Products Co.
Highway 82
Phone 53
Greenville, Mississippi
GRADE A PASTEURIZED JERSEY MILK
Page 38
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Seafoods
E
Sauces
STUFFED CRAB
1 green pepper (minced)
2 eggs
1 onion (minced fine)
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons parsley
Dash of cayenne
1 pound crab meat
Bay leaf
2 cups bread crumbs (wet)
Thyme
Cook pepper and onion until soft, add parsley, crab meat,
crumbs, a sprig of thyme, 1 or two bay leaves and eggs. Mix well,
cook five minutes, fill crab shells. (If crab shells are not on hand
use artificial sea shells, tomato baskets, or green peppers. This same
mixture is delicious served on toast.
Mrs. Linda Haik
CREOLE GUMBO
2 cups cut okra
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 large onion,chopped
3 tablespoonsful fat
1 stalk celery, chopped
2 cloves garlic, chopped
2 tablespoonsful flour
1 green pepper, chopped
1 1/2 cups cleaned shrimp
1 No. 2 can tomatoes
1 quart hot water
1 cup oysters
1 teaspoonful salt
2 sprigs parsley, chopped
1/2 teaspoonful black pepper
Fry okra slowly in fat until soft, add onion, garlic and green
pepper; fry until onion' is soft; blend in flour, add tomatoes, add re-
maining ingredients, simmer slowly at least one hour. Gumbo should
be dark and thick. If canned shrimp is used, add the last five minutes
of cooking. Serve in soup.
Mrs. Orville Cadenhead
Page 39
The Delta's Best Cook Book
DEVILED SHRIMP HORS D'OEUVRES
8 cooked shrimp
8 rounds of bread
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1/4 teaspoon worcestershire sauce
Curry powder
Parsley
Place 1 shrimp on each round of bread. Combine mayonnaise
with worcestershire sauce and add curry powder to taste. Top
shrimp with sauce and garnish with small sprig parsley. Yield: 8
canapes.
Mrs. Fred Krutz
SHRIMP GUMBO
1 lb. okra (cut small)
3 pieces of garlic (minced)
2 onions chopped
1 sprig thyme
1 green pepper (chopped)
5 tablespoons tomato paste
1/2 cup parsley (minced)
3 bay leaves
4 lbs. shrimp
Salt and pepper
8 crabs (parboiled)
Boiling water
Fry okra until brown, add onion and pepper. Cook until
onions and pepper are soft. Add remaining ingredients, cover with
boiling water and cook until done. (About 1 hour).
Linda Haik
STUFFED CRAB
1 can white crab meat
2 boiled eggs
1 cup celery, chopped fine
1 small onion
1 small bell pepper
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
1 can mushroom soup
1 teaspoon worcestershire sauce
Dash red pepper
Boil celery, onion and bell pepper until tender. Add every-
thing together. Fill crabshells with above. Sprinkle with cracker
crumbs and cheese. Bake at 350° until light brown. If you do not
have crab shells, bake in casserole dish. Serves 6 to 8.
Mrs. Innocent Loyacano
Page 41
The Delta's Best Cook Book
COCKTAIL SAUCE
1/2 cup catsup or chili sauce
Horseradish to taste
Few drops tabasco
3 tablespoons lemon juice
1/2 cup finely chopped celery
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce
Mix all ingredients together and put in screw top jar and
store in ice box.
BARBECUE SAUCE
2 1/2 cups tomato catsup
One onion chopped fine
TIMW
2 small pieces garlic, chopped fine
1/2 pound butter or margerine
2 tablespoons red hot sauce
Salt and pepper to taste
Juice of one lemon
Cook all together slowly for one hour, stirring to keep from
scorching.
BARBECUE SAUCE
1/4 cup Lee and Perrin sauce
2 cups catsup
1/2 cup mustard (with horseradish)
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup each celery, sweet pepper, onion
1 clove garlic
1/2 cup vinegar
2 tsp. salt
1 tsp. each of black and white pepper
1 tsp. red hot sauce
1 tsp. sugar
1/4 cup lemon juice
Simmer onion, celery and pepper in butter until tender. Add
other ingredients together and simmer for 30 minutes.
The late Ernest Kellner Sr.
HENRY T. CROSBY
"Delta Land"
LAND LOANS & INVESTMENTS
Page 42
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Cakes
WHITE FRUIT CAKE
1 cup butter
1 cup pineapple juice
6 egg whites
2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons baking powder
4 cups flour
1/2 pound citron
1 pound white raisins
1/2 cup pineapple
2 cups cocoanut (grated)
1 pound green cherries
1/2 pound red cherries
1 pound almonds
Sift and measure flour. Use 2 cups for dredging fruits.
Sift 2 cups with baking powder and a pinch of salt.
Cream butter and sugar and mix as in any fruit cake.
Beat
egg whites and fold in last. Bake in low oven.
Mrs. Ernest Smith
DEVILS FOOD CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
2 whole eggs
1/4 cake chocolate (3 sqs.)
Mix sugar and eggs; add milk and chocolate. Put. on in top
of double boiler and cook to the consistency of mush. Set aside to
cool. In a bowl mix:
3/4 cup butter (1 1/4 sticks)
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda mixed in a little hot water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Add the cooked mixture and mix well. A cup of pecans
may be added if desired. Bake in 375 degree oven until done. About
30 to 45 minutes. Do not over cook.
Mrs. Kate Sharkey
Page 43
The Delta's Best Cook Book
FRUIT CAKE
1 cup butter (heaping)
1 cup brown sugar
istrad
2 tablespoons coco
6 eggs
4 cups flour
1 cup molasses
C
1 cup strong coffee
1 cup grape juice
1 glass apple jelly
1 teaspoon soda
1
1 pound raisins
1 pound currents
1 pound nuts
1 pound figs
1/2 pound cherries
1/2 pound pineapple
1 pound dates
1/2 pound orange peel
1/2 pound candied ginger
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon nut meg
1 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon cloves
Soak fruit and spices over night in the grape juice-cream
butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs to butter and sugar then add the
coco and coffee-Dissolve soda in little water and pour into molasses
and add to rest of the mixture. Add the beaten egg whites and half
of the flour. Dredge the fruit in the other half of the flour, and add
the two mixtures. Bake very slowly 2 or 4 hours. Makes about 12
pounds.
Mrs. C. C. Castillow
SPONGE CAKE
5 eggs (beaten separately)
1 cup sugar
1 cup flour
Vanila
Mix all ingredients together bake in loaf of muffin pan. This
makes 18 muffins.
Mrs. Tom Hood
baosga
TATUM MUSIC AND APPLIANCE
EXCLUSIVE CROSLEY DEALER
507 Washington Ave.
Phone 183
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 44
The Delta's Best Cook Book
WHITE FRUIT CAKE
1 1/2 cups butter
1 pound citron
6 eggs
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon nutmeg
4 cups sifted flour
1/2 cup whiskey
1 pound pecans
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 pound pineapple
1 pound cherries
1 pound white raisins
Mix 1 cup flour with fruits and nuts, sift other dry ingredients
together, cream butter, add sugar. Add unbeaten eggs one at the
time. Alternate flour and liquid, add fruit mixture last. Bake
in slow oven.
Mrs. Robert Mann
AMBROSIA CAKE
3 eggs
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 cup buttermilk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons soda, mixed in buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cake chocolate
1 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
Mix and bake in two cake tins.
"FILLING"
2 cups sugar
1 pinch soda
1 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 tablespoon butter
Boil until thick, then add:
1 fresh cocoanut, grated
1 cup pecans
1 cup raisins
2 oranges, grated
Spread between layers and on top. Then cover cake with
icing.
"ICING"
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup sweet milk
3 tablespoons cocoa
Boil until forms hard ball when tested in cold water.
Pour
into 2 beaten egg whites. Beat until cool. Spread on cake.
Mrs. Hugh Wiley
Page 45
The Delta's Best Cook Book
WHITE LOAF CAKE
1/2 cup butter
6 egg whites
1/2 cup flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat butter until creamy. Add sugar gradually. Mix dry
ingredients. Add alternately with the milk and flour to the butter
mixture. Add flavoring and fold in egg whites. Set oven at 300
degrees, raise temperature every 15 minutes until it reaches 350 de-
grees. Bake one hour.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
LADY CAKE
1 stick butter
1/2 cup milk
1 cup sugar
Whites of 5 eggs (beaten stiff)
2 cups flour (sifted)
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 level teaspoons baking powder
Cream butter, add sugar, cream again. Alternate flour and
milk. Add flavoring and baking powder. Fold in egg whites lightiy.
Pour into two 9 inch pans. Bake in 350 degree oven about 25 min.
"FILLING"
4 egg whites (beaten stiff)
1 pound sugar (made into simple syrup)
Cook syrup until threads from spoon. Pour over egg whites,
beating constantly. Use any desired flavor.
Put between layers
and ice over top.
Miss Ann Moore
Joe Gow Nue Co.
STORE NO. 1
STORE NO. 2
200 Washington
601 Nelson St.
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 46
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ANGEL FOOD CAKE
Whites of 11 eggs
1 cup sifted flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon almond flavoring
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
Sift sugar 5 times and add gradually to well beaten whites.
Sift flour 4 times, add cream of tartar and sift again. Then add flour
and flavoring. Put in pan as quickly as possible after mixing. Bake
at
350°
for 1 hour. (Delicious baked in two layers which requires
just 30 minutes cooking.)
"FROSTING"
2 cups sugar
6 tablespoons water
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup white corn syrup
Put sugar, water and syrup in sauce pan and cook until it
forms soft ball in cold water. Turn off flame and let stand over
burner while quickly beating egg whites. Pour syrup over egg
whites beating constantly. Add vanilla. Beat until cool enough
to hold its shape. Then spread on cake.
Mrs. W. N. Gist, Sr.
EGG NOG ICE BOX CAKE
7 eggs
1 1/2 pints whipped cream
20 tablespoons whiskey
7 tablespoons sugar
1 doz. almond macaroons
2 tablespoons gelatin
1 1/2 doz. lady fingers
Beat egg (separately) adding sugar to whites; add whiskey
slowly to beaten yolks; dissolve gelatin in a little cold water add to
yolks. Fold in whites of eggs (beaten stiffly) and whipped cream.
Line mold with lady fingers, after splitting so they will stand
up around bowl. Use crumbs to line bottom of bowl. Add part of
egg nog mixture-then a layer of macaroon crumbs. Continue until
all mixture is used, leave in ice box over night. Top with whipped
cream to which sugar is added. This takes 3/4 pint more cream.
Mrs. Tom Hood
Page 47
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CARAMEL FUDGE CAKE
4 tablespoons butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup flour
1 cup nut meats chopped
1 teaspoon vanila
salt to taste
Cream butter and sugar together.
Mix with other ingredi-
ents and bake in a slow oven 40 minutes.
Cut in squares and roll in
powdered sugar.
Mrs. Ike E. Barnette
JAM LOAF CAKE
4 whole eggs (beaten)
1 cup butter
2 cups jam
3 cups pecans
2 cups sugar
4 cups flour
1 1/2 cups seedless raisins
1 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in 1 cup buttermilk)
Cream butter and half of sugar; beat egg yolks light with
other half of sugar; add to butter and sugar. Put soda in buttermilk;
add with a little flour to this mixture, then add egg whites and rest
of flour; add spices, raisins, pecans and jam. Bake in loaf pan.
Mrs. Walter Smith
ERNEST WALDAUER AGENCY
INSURANCE - REAL ESTATE
105 South Poplar Street
Phone 153
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 48
The Delta's Best Cook Book
RED DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
1/2 cup water
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
1/2 cup cocoa
2/3 cup butter
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 eggs
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix water, soda and cocoa, allow to stand while you cream
butter and sugar; add eggs one at the time; beat well. Sift flour and
add salt. Add flour to creamed butter alternating first mixture and
milk. Bake 45 minutes in slow oven then spread with seven minute
icing. (see frostings).
Mrs. Hobart Ogle
DATE TORTE
1 cup sugar
1 cup dates (cut)
1 cup broken nuts
2 eggs (unbeaten)
1/2 cup flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
Cream sugar and egg.
Add flour, then other ingredients.
Grease and flour pan. Bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. Angel
food cake pan recommended or a pan 9 by 9.
Serve with whipped
cream.
Mrs. T. B. Lewis
THREE LAYER YELLOW CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 teaspoon vanila
2 1/4 cups cake flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup milk
Cream shortening; add the sugar slowly, beating in well. Add
well beaten egg yolks and beat until well blended. Add vanila ex-
tract. Sift together dry ingredients and add alternately with milk
to first mixture. Mix in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in greased
layer cake pans in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. This makes
3 layers.
Page 49
The Delta's Best Cook Book
FUDGE CAKE
4 eggs
1 stick butter
2 cups flour
2 cups sugar
2 cups nuts
1 teaspoon vanila
4 squares unsweetened chocolate
Cream butter and sugar; beat each whole egg separately, add-
ing pinch of salt to each egg. Add one at the time to the butter and
sugar. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler; add flour, chocolate,
nuts and vanila. Bake in pan lined with greased brown paper. Bake
30 minutes at 350 degrees.
Mrs. Hugh Gamble
BANANA BUTTERSCOTCH CAKE
1 3/4 cups brown sugar
3 cups sifted cake flour
3/4 cup butter
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 eggs well beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine 1 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup butter and 1/4 cup milk.
Cook to hard ball stage or 250 degrees F., gradually adding remaining
milk, heated, stirring constantly. Cool. Cream remaining shorten-
ing until soft. Blend in remaining brown sugar and add eggs, beat-
ing until light and fluffy. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to
creamed mixture alternately with butterscotch mixture. Flavor
with vanilla. Bake in 10 inch greased loaf pan in a moderate oven
(350 degrees F.) about 50 or 60 minutes. Frost with icing made by
mashing 1 banana into 2 1/2 cups confectioners sugar. Add a dash
of salt, 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Top cake with sliced bananas just
before serving.
Mrs. Fred Keel
PECAN CAKE
1/2 cup butter
2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
5 egg whites
1 cup shelled pecans
Cream sugar and butter; sift flour and baking powder, alter-
nate with milk to first mixture. Add vanilla and pecans, fold in egg
whites. Bake.
Mrs. Ernest Waldauer
Page 51
HUSBAND'S (TOMATO SOUP) CAKE
3/4 cup Crisco
3 tsp. baking powder
1 1/2 cups tomato soup
1 1/2 tsp. cinnamon
3 cups flour
1 1/2 tsp. nutmeg
3/4 cup water
1 tsp. ground cloves
2 tsp. soda
1 1/2 cups raisins
3/4 tsp. salt
1 1/2 cups nutmeats
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine soup with water and soda. Add to Crisco mixed
with sifted dry ingredients. Stir in raisins and nuts. Bake one hour
in moderate oven.
Frost with frosting made by combining the following ingredi-
ents:
1 pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese
Vanilla extract
1 egg yolk
Powdered sugar
Mrs. Ernest Smith
The Delta's Best Cook Book
GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE (NO SUGAR)
1/2 cup shortening
1 cup raisins
2 eggs
1 tsp. cinnamon
3/4 cup sweet milk
1 tsp. soda
1/2 tsp. allspice
1 cup chopped pecans
1 cup honey or (half honey, half molasses)
3 cups graham cracker crumbs (fine)
2 tablespoons warm water
Roll crackers to fine crumbs. Cream shortening, honey and
eggs together. Add crumbs and spices. Add fruits and nuts. Mix
well. Bake in a greased and floured pan in oven 350 degrees for
1 hour and 15 minutes.
Frances Phillips
ROCKS
6 eggs
1 teaspoon allspice
3/4 cup butter
1 1/2 pounds sugar
1 large pkg. dates
6 cups shelled pecans
1 teaspoon soda (dissolve in 3 tbsp. warm water)
1 teaspoon cinnamon
6 cups sifted flour (or enough flour to make a stiff dough)
Mix all ingredients. Bake in a slow oven on greased paper.
Mrs. H. N. Alexander
DOUGHNUTS (Took first prize in "Delta Fair" in fall of 1911)
1 quart sifted flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 eggs
1/4 cup shortening
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
Sift together flour, salt, baking powder, and nutmeg until
mixed. Cream eggs, shortening and sugar until light; add milk and
sifted flour. Some qualities of flour require more milk to make a
soft dough. Roll out about 1 inch thick and cut with a ring cutter.
When all are cut out, have ready the frying kettle with sufficient hot
fat to float the doughnuts while frying. Test with a piece of dough.
If it comes immediately to the surface it is hot enough to begin frying.
Cook about 3 minutes, turning frequently to keep them smooth and
like balls. When taken from fat, dust with powdered sugar, and
cinnamon. (If you like cinnamon).
Mrs. H. L. Wells
Page 53
DOUGHNUTS
1 level tablespoon butter
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
3/4 cup sour milk
2 cups flour (after sifting)
Cream butter and sugar together; then add eggs, beat
thoroughly. Add nutmeg and sour milk and beat until very light;
add baking powder and soda to flour; add flour to other ingredients
2 cups at a time until well mixed to a soft dough. Roll out about
1/2 inch thick and cut with doughnut cutter. Fry in deep fat until
brown.
If desired sprinkle with 1/2 cup sugar mixed with 1 teaspoon
cinnamon.
Mrs. Frank Case
CREAM PUFFS
1 cup flour
1 cup boiling water
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
1/2 cup shortening (at least 1/2 butter)
Sift flour, measure; add salt and sift again. Combine shorten-
ing and boiling water in sauce pan; keep over low heat until butter
is
melted. Add flour all at one time and stir vigorously over low
heat until mixture forms a ball and leaves the side of the pan; remove
from heat. Add unbeaten eggs, one at the time, beating thoroughly
after each addition. Continue beating until a thick dough is formed.
Drop by tablespoons onto a greased baking sheet, about 2 inches apart.
Bake in hot oven (425° F.) about 50 minutes or until beads of
moisture no longer appear on surface. Do not open oven door during
early part of baking.
When cool cut a slit in the side of each and fill with cream
filling or sweetened whipped cream. Sprinkle tops with confectioners
sugar. Makes one dozen large cream puffs.
Cream Filling
2/3 cup sugar
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 eggs or 4 egg yolks (slightly beaten)
5 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine dry ingredients in top of double boiler; stir in milk
gradually. Cook over boiling water until thickened, stirring con-
stantly. Cover and cook for 10 minutes longer, stirring occasionally.
Stir a little of the hot mixture into slightly beaten eggs; slowly stir
into the remaining hot mixture. Cook over hot (not boiling water)
for 2 minutes stirring constantly. Chill; add vanilla.
NOTE: for a richer filling add 2 tablespoons butter to the
hot cooked filling; or fold in 1/2 cup heavy whipped cream, after the
filling has been chilled.
Miss Margaret Krutz
The Deita's Best Cook Book
Two
FOOL-PROOF FROSTING
1 cup white sugar
1/3 cup water
2 tablespoons karo syrup
Pinch Salt
2 egg whites
Boil sugar, water, karo and salt together until it spins a thread
then slowly pour over two beaten egg whites. Constantly beating,
continue beating until frosting is thick, then beat in two tablespoons
powdered sugar.
Mrs. M. L. Ridgeway
ORANGE GLACE FROSTING
4 tablespoons sugar
4 oranges
1 1/2 cups orange juice and water
3 tablespoons cornstarch
Dash of salt
Combine cornstarch, sugar, salt, orange juice and water; cook
over direct heat 5 minutes or until it thickens. Add 1 teaspoon orange
rind and sections from 4 oranges. Drained well, sweetened if neces-
sary. Cool; spread between layers.
CARMEL ICING
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup milk
Put on and cook until sugar dissolves, cooking slowly. 1/2 cup
sugar, in another small pan and melt over low heat. When melted
pour in first part, cook until soft ball stage; set off to cool. Add 4
tablespoons butter; beat until creamy; add 1 teaspoon vanilla.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
Page 56
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BOILED FROSTING
2 cups sugar
1/4 cup white corn syrup
6 tablespoons water
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cook the sugar, syrup and water together over a surface burn-
er until it reaches a temperature of 240 degrees, or forces a soft ball
in cold water. Turn off the fire and let the syrup stand over the
warm burner while quickly beating the egg whites. Pour the syrup
slowly over the beaten egg whites, beating with a spoon while adding
the vanilla and beat until cold. This mixture will hold its shape
when spread on a cake. If it cooks a little too much and hardens
too rapidly add 1 tablespoon of hot water. If not cooked sufficiently
it hardens. Add a tablespoon of powdered sugar. Put any left over
frosting in a jar; cover tightly, and keep in refrigerator. It will keep
fresh for a week. Then if necessary, add a small amount of hot water
and beat until it is a good consistency to spread.
Mrs, William Lyon
WHITE ICING
4 egg whites
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
3 tablespoons white karo syrup
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
Vanilla to taste
Boil sugar, water and karo until it will form a soft ball when
dropped in cold water. Pour over well beaten egg whites and beat,
beat, beat. Add powdered sugar and spread.
Mrs. R. N. Middleton
SEVEN MINUTE ICING
1 egg white (unbeaten)
7/8 cup granulated sugar
3 tablespoons cold water
Extract
Place egg white, sugar and water in top of double boiler.
Place over boiling water and beat with beater for seven minutes. Add
1/2 teaspoon flavoring, beat and spread on cake.
Mrs. Hobart Ogle
Page 57
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Cookies
SUGARLESS, BUTTERLESS CHOCOLATE SLICES
2 pounds Nestles chocolate drops
2 cups unchopped pecans
1 can Eagle Brand condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt chocolate in double boiler; add milk. Beat until smooth;
add nuts and vanilla. Line deep, narrow pan with wax paper, pour
in mixture. Set in refrigerator until cold. Lift out and slice.
Mrs. H. L. Wetherbee
DATE COOKIES
1 cup chopped dates
1 cup chopped nuts
1 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons water
2 eggs
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix nuts, dates, and add sugar, water, and beaten eggs. Add
the flour, baking powder and vanilla to the mixture. Spread in pan
and bake in moderate oven. Cut in squares when cold.
CHOCOLATE PECAN CRISP
Melt 1 stick butter, pour over 1 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons
chocolate:
2 eggs beaten separately
3/4 cup sifted flour
Vanilla
1 cup pecans
Mix all ingredients, bake in shallow pan.
Cut in strips.
Dust with powdered sugar.
Mrs. Tom Hood
Page 59
The Delta's Best Cook Book
TOFFEE COOKIES
1 cup shortening
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons cinnamon
1/2 cup ground nuts
Cream shortening, add sugar. Add unbeaten egg yolk and
vanilla. Sift flour, salt and cinnamon together. Add to the mixture
a little at the time blending well after each addition. Pat out with
hands to 1/4 inch in thickness on well greased cookie sheet, spread top
with unbeaten egg white, sprinkle with ground nuts, mark in squares
with silver knife. Bake 30 minutes in slow oven 275 degrees. Let
cool on cookie sheet, lift off and bake in squares.
Mrs. R. o. Norris
PECAN ROLLS
1/2 pound butter
4 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 cups chopped pecans
Pinch salt
Bring butter to room temperature and cream until fluffy.
Add powdered sugar and vanilla. Then work flour sifted with salt.
Last, add chopped pecans. Break off bits of dough about as big as a
small walnut and shape quickly into rolls about the size of your finger.
Bake in slow oven (300°) about 40 minutes or until delicately brown.
While still warm, roll in powdered sugar.
Mrs. Wiley Mock
LEVY, & RODE
Complete Home Furnishings
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 60
The Delta's Best Cook Book
OAT MEAL COOKIES
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 cup pecans
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 eup flour
2 cups oat meal
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sweet milk
1/4 cup cocoanut
Cream shortening and sugar, add egg beaten. Sift flour,
baking powder, soda together. Add to creamed shortening, sugar
and egg. Add oat meal, cocoanut, pecans and vanilla. Kneed until
well mixed; drop i nspoonfuls on greased cookie sheet, mash flat with
fork. Bake in moderate oven.
Mrs. Walter Smith
ORANGE NUT STICKS
Beat 4 whole eggs. Add 1 pound brown sugar
2 cups sifted flour
2 cups pecans
18 orange gum drop wedges (eut firre)
Mix all ingredients-Pour in a shallow pan. Bake slowly at
300 degrees for 30 minutes. Cut in strips; dust with powdered sugar.
Mrs. Tom Hood
DATE AND NUT BARS
1/2 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs
1 cup brown sugar
1 pkg. pitted dates 7 1/2 oz.
1 cup nut meats
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together. Beat the
eggs until light and fluffy. Gradually add the sugar, beating while
adding. Add dates and nuts which have been cut into small pieces.
Add the dry ingredients, melted butter an vanilla. Pour into greased
7 1/4 x 10 1/2 x 2 inch pan and bake at 325° for 40 minutes.
Mrs. William Lyon
Page 61
The Delta's Best Cook Book
OLD FASHIONED TEA CAKES
1/2 cup butter
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add the beaten eggs then
the vanilla and lastly the flour and baking powder sifted together.
Roll thinly, cut into rounds or diamonds and bake 10 minutes in a
moderate oven.
Mrs. H. H. Wells
I
ICE BOX TEA CAKES
1 cup butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup white sugar
4 eggs (beaten together)
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups nuts
8 cups sifted flour
ATT
Mix all ingredients. Work into two rolls. Put in ice box.
Chill. Slice and bake.
Mrs. Tom Hood
BUTTER FINGERS
2 sticks of soft butter
4 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 cups flour
1 cup finely chopped nuts
2 teaspoons vanilla
Mix all ingredients and roll in cakes about the size of your
little finger. Bake in very slow oven 35 or 40 minutes. When cold
roll in powdered sugar.
Mrs. Kate Sharkey
Queen City Lumber Co.
LUMBER & BUILDING MATERIAL
- PHONES -
2300
2301
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 62
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ICE BOX COOKIES
5 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda
3 eggs (slightly beaten)
1 1/2 cups chopped nuts
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup granulated sugar
3 sticks butter
Sift flour once and measure; add soda and sift three times.
Beat eggs whole; add sugar. Beat, then add hot melted butter. Beat,
add nuts and flour. Let set in ice box until stiff enough to handle.
Make into rolls and wrap in wax paper. Put in ice box overnight
and slice 1/4 inch thick and cook in quick oven. Make rolls about 6
inches long and 2 inches in diameter. They are better when sliced
thin. Dough must be kept in the ice box until sliced.
Miss Snodie Howard
OLD FASHIONED TEA CAKES
1/3 cup butter
3 cups sifted flour
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/1 cup orange juice
1 egg
Grated rind of 1 orange
Cream butter and sugar, add orange juice, rind and egg.
Beat thoroughly. Add a little of this mixture at the time to flour,
salt and baking powder. Place on a floured board and roll thin. Cut
with a large, round cutter. Place on a greased cookie sheet, sprinkle
with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven (350°).
Mrs. A. G. Wiley
Johl E Bergman
"THE SHOE MEN"
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 63
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Duiding
DATE PUDDING
1 cup dates
1 cup sugar
1 cup shelled pecans
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs beaten separately
1 tablespoon or more of flour
Dredge the nuts and dates with flour. Beat whites of eggs
until stiff and fold in baking powder. Beat yellows in separate bowl
and add the sugar. Now mix all together and bake in casserole at
moderate temperature (about 350° ) for 30 minutes or until eggs are
cooked.
Mrs. W. N. Gist, Sr.
WINE PUDDING
4 eggs
Juice of 2 or 3 lemons
1/3 cup red wine
1/2 cup sugar
Break eggs in top of double boiler. Beat until frothy. Add
lemon juice. Beat uhtil combined. Add wine, continue to beat over
hot water until pudding thickens. Remove from heat. Pour into
Sherbert glasses, chill and serve.
Mrs. Louis C. Davidson, Jr.
Page 65
The Delta's Best Cook Book
GRATED SWEET POTATO PONE (Good) OLD FASHIONED
5 medium sized sweet potatoes
3 eggs beaten
1 can condensed milk
1/2 cup molasses
1 stick butter
Cinnamon and nutmeg
Mix grated potatoe, eggs, milk, butter and molasses and add
cinnamon and nutmeg. Bake in oven or pressure cooker. If cooked
in pressure cooker, brown in oven.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
MOCK CHEESE TART
36 Graham crackers
6 eggs
2 cans Eagle Brand milk
1 stick butter
Juice and grated rind of 3 lemons
Roll graham crackers, cream butter and mix together; line a
greased form mold forming a pastry on bottom and sides, then fill
with mixture made of:
Beat eggs separately, add lemon juice and rind to milk; add
well beaten egg yolks, fold in stiffly beaten whites. Put into mold,
sprinkle top with graham cracker crumbs. Start baking in moderate
oven 300 degrees for 40 minutes then bake for 10 minutes on storage
heat.
Mrs. Kate Sharkey
Theater
Bowling
Center Amusements
Sport for the Entire Family
Soda Fountain
Highway 82
Page 66
The Delta's Best Cook Book
"
"
Pastries
CHEESE PIE
6 eggs, if small, 4 if large
1 cup milk
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Pinch salt
1/2 stick butter
Mix and cook in uncooked pie crust.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
ORANGE PIE
Grated rind of one orange
Juice of two oranges
Large cup sugar
Heaping tablespoonful flour
3 egg yolks (well beaten)
2 tablespoonsful melted butter
Stir together sugar, flour, egg yolks, adding butter last. Cook-
ed pastry.
Mrs. C. A. Parks
CUSTARD PIE
2 cups milk
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, nutmeg and vanilla and
mix well. Add scalded milk. Line pie plate with pastry and cook
about five minutes. Pour in mixture and bake at 450° for fifteen
minutes and 325° for 25 minutes. (If cocoanut pie is desired, add
one cup grated cocoanut to filling mixture.
Mrs. H. H. Carroll
Page 67
The Delta's Best Cook Book
LEMON ICE BOX PIE
3 egg yolks
Juice of 2 lemons
1 can condensed milk
Beat eggs well then add condensed milk. Put in pie crust of
vanilla wafers. Make meringue of egg whites. Brown in oven.
Cool.
Place in refrigerator.
Mrs. David Bates
AMBROSIA PIE
Juice of 2 oranges
Juice of 1 lemon
Grated orange rind
3 eggs (separated)
1/2 cup flour (sifted)
1 cup grated fresh cocoanut
Mix sugar and flour. Add orange and lemon juice to this
dry mixture. Add slightly beaten egg yolks and orange rind. Cook
until thick. Put in cooked pie crust, Add cocoanut on top then top
with meringue. Brown. Always add 2 level tablespoons of sugar
to each egg white.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
LEMON PIE
5 eggs (separated)
Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon
1 tablespoon butter (melted)
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons cream
Beat 5 yolks and 2 whites of eggs; add sugar, lemon juice and
rind; add cream and butter. Pour into pie shell and cook until almost
firm, leaving soft spot in center. Beat 3 egg whites for meringue, add-
ing 1 tablespoon sugar for each white.
Mrs. Tom Hood
PECAN PIE
2 cups brown sugar
2 whole eggs
1/3 cup milk
1/3 cup butter
Pecans
Mix sugar with melted butter and eggs, which have been
beaten. Put in uncooked pie shell and put pecans on top as thick as
you wish. Bake 40 minutes or until crust is brown and filling is done.
Do not have oven to hot.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
Page 71
The Delta's Best Cook Book
SOUTHERN PECAN PIE
1 cup pecans
3 eggs
1/3 cup sugar
1 cup corn syrup
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup melted butter
1 - 9 inch unbaked pie shell
Line pastry shell with pecans.
Beat eggs, add corn syrup,
sugar, salt and butter; turn into crust. Bake in hot oven 425 degrees
for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to moderate (350°) and cook 40 minutes
longer. Cool before serving.
Mrs. Fred Krutz
CHOCOLATE PIE
2 eggs
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
2 heaping tablespoons flour
1/3 cup coco
lump butter
Beat egg yolks and gradually beat in sugar. Make paste
of coco and flour with a little milk and add to yolk and sugar then add
balance of milk. Cook in double boiler until thick and pour into
partly baked pie crust and finish cooking. Then top with meringue
and bake slowly until it browns.
Mrs. R. R. Barwick
ANGEL FOOD PIE
Beat 4 egg whites until almost stiff. Add 1/2 cup sugar, add
1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat until mixture stands alone. Put into baked
pie shell. Place in slow oven (300°) and bake until whites are slight-
ly browned about 30 minutes. Remove from oven and allow to cool.
Whip one cup whipping cream, add 1/2 cup sugar and 1/2 teaspoon
vanilla. Spread evenly over the pie. Sprinkle with 1 cup nut meats
ground.
Crust
1 cup flour
1 pinch salt
4 tablespoons shortening
Add enough ice water to hold mixture together.
Bake in
hot oven.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
Page 73
The Delta's Best Cook Book
MOLASSES PIE
3 whole eggs
1 scant cup sugar
1 tablespoon flour
1 cup molasses
1 lump butter
2 tablespoons buttermilk
Mix all ingredients and bake slowly in unbaked pie crust.
Mrs. R. R. Barwick
KARO PECAN PIE
4 eggs well beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup blue label Karo
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons corn meal
3 tablespoons butter
1 pinch salt
Beat eggs well. Add other ingredients. Add chopped pecans.
Have pie shell partly baked. Pour mixture into the shell and finish
baking at 350°.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
"APPLE CRUM TOP PIE" FILLING
Slice 8 or 10 medium size apples very thin. Place in deep
pan. Mix with 2/3 cup sugar. Dot with butter and nutmeg. Add
2 or 4 tablespoons water.
TOP
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 cup flour
Cream butter and sugar well. Then add flour, mix well,
spread on top apples. Cook 35 or 40 minutes in moderate oven.
Mrs. A. D. Bradley
LEMON PIE
2 egg yolks
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
2 heaping tablespoons flour
Cook custard in double boiler until thick, then add juice of 2
lemons, pour into partly baked pie shell, bake until done. Then put
meringue on top and bake until it browns.
Mrs. R. R. Barwick
Page 74
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Frozen
VANILA ICE CREAM (This recipe makes 2 gal.)
Vanila to taste
4 qts. milk
4 cups sugar
5 or 6 heaping tablespoons flour
10 or 12 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
Put milk in double boiler or large container over boiling wat-
er. Blend sugar flour and salt while milk is heating. Dip up enough
warm milk to make a paste with flour and sugar, stir paste into milk.
Beat eggs and add to mixture. Stir until spoon coats. Cover with
tight lid and turn flame real low. Cook 10 minutes. Stirring a few
minutes. Cool; add vanilla in freezer.
Mrs. Wm. Taggart
CUSTARD ICE CREAM
4 eggs
2 cups sugar
1/3 cup flour
1 quart milk
2 tall cans evaporated milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 pt. whipping cream
Separate eggs. Beat yolks and add dry ingredients which
have been mixed. Add quart milk and cook until thickened in
double boiler. Cool, add evaporated milk and cream whipped. Beat
whites and add to mixture. Add vanilla to taste. If fruit is desired add
when mixture is half frozen. This mixture is not recommended for
mechanical refrigerators, but for hand freezers.
Mrs. H. H. Carroll
Page 76
The Delta's Best Cook Book
SUGAR
Candies
CARAMEL CANDY
1/2 cup sugar, browned
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup milk
2 cups white sugar
1 cup cream
Melt 1/2 cup of sugar until brown then add the scalded milk;
add cream and cook slowly, until soft ball forms when tested in cold
water, then cool for a few minutes; add butter. Cut into squares be-
fore too hard.
Helen Miller
BROWN AND WHITE KISSES
2 egg whites
1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup bitter chocolate
Beat egg whites until stiff; add sugar gradually when
thoroughly mixed pour in chocolate. Drop on pan lined with brown
paper; bake 35 minutes in oven 275 degrees or until brown.
Floriana Donovan
Page 78
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CHOCOLATE FUDGE (Without sugar.)
1 cup nuts (chopped)
6 marshmallows (cut fine)
2 seven ounce pkgs. chocolate
1 can Eagle Brand Con. milk (nonsweetened)
Melt chocolate over hot water; stir in milk; add marshmallows.
After all is melted remove from stove; add nuts, don't stir. Pour in
dish to cool 4 or 5 hours. Then cut in squares.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
CHOCOLATE FUDGE
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanila
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons karo
1 tablespoon butter
2 tablespoons coco
Pinch of salt
1/2 cup cream or whole milk
Boil sugar, karo and water until it threads. Add cream,
butter, coco, vanilla and salt; stir until well mixed. Cook until soft
ball forms in cup of cold water. Remove from heat and cool until
luke warm. When cool beat vigorously. If it hardens too fast add
a teaspoon cream at a time and continue to beat. When creamy add
nuts and drop on a greased platter.
Jo Beth Williams
BUTTERSCOTCH
1 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
1 stick butter
1 cup dark karo
2 tablespoons water
Cook at a slow boil until a candy string and then pour in
a pan.
Mrs. Fred O'Bannon
CREAM CANDY, PULLED
3 cups sugar
1 cup of water hot or cold
Pinch of soda
Pinch of salt
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 lump of butter (size of walnut)
Dissolve on a slow fire and cook without stirring. Cook fast
and when almost done drop a cup of cream in but do not let it stop
boiling. When it threads drop a little in cold water, if it is hard enough
to crack on cup, it is done. Pour on a buttered slab or dish. Let cool
and pull for 30 minutes. Cream may be omitted.
Mrs H. L. Wells
Page 79
CAKES
No. 1. Eggless, Milkless, Butterless
FRUIT CAKE
Part No. 1
Part No. 2
2 cups raisins
4 cups flour
2 cups currants
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup citron and nuts
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 cup shortening
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
Mix all ingredients together,
Mix all ingredients together,
set on the fire and boil 10 minutes add to No. 1 and stir well. Put
until thick, then set away to cool. in loaf pans lined with greased
paper and bake one hour in a slow
oven.
No. 2. FRUIT CAKE
Part No. 1
Part No. 2
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 1/4 cups water
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/: cup shortening
2 cups flour
2 ounces citron, cut fine
5 teaspoons baking powder
Mix No. 1 together, set on
Mix No. 2 together thoroughly,
fire and boil 5 minutes; set away add to No. 1 and stir well; bake
to cool.
in loaf pans about 1 hour, slow
oven.
No. 3. MARBLE CAKE
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups lard
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons cocoa
2 teaspoons of baking powder
3/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup cold coffee
Sift all dry ingredients together; then rub the lard into the mix-
ture and divide into two equal parts. To one part add the coffee and
cocoa. To the other, the milk, and vanilla. Mix each part well and
putrithem in alternate layers in à buttered and floured cake pan and
bake in a moderate oven 3/4 of an hour.
3
No. 4. DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
2 cups brown sugar
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup butter
1/3 cake of baker's chocolate,
1/2 cup sour milk
grated and dissolved in 1/2 cup
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
water
Cream together the sugar and butter; then add the sour milk into
which the soda has been dissolved. Then stir in the flour and choc-
olate. Bake 45 min.
No. 5. CHOCOLATE CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup butter
1 square baker's chocolate
1/2 cup sour milk
1/2 cup of boiling water
2 scant cups of flour
Cream sugar and butter; dissolve soda in sour milk and add to
sugar and butter. Dissolve chocolate in the boiling water and add to
the mixture; stir in the flour and bake 30 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 6. BOILED CAKE
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1/2 cup lard
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup hot water
1 1/2 cups flour
1 cup raisins
1 teaspoon baking soda
Boil sugar, lard, raisins and hot water together for 3 minutes and
set away to cool; then add the flour, spices and soda and mix well.
Put in a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven.
No. 7. QUEEN'S CAKE
1 cup sugar
2 cups sifted flour
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup lard
2 teaspoons mixed spices
1 cup seedless raisins
Cream sugar and lard; dissolve soda in the/sour milk and add to
sugar and lard; stir well and add flour; mix smooth and add spices and
raisins. Put in a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven.
No. 8. EGGLESS LOAF CAKE
1/2 cup butter
3 cups flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
Cream sugar and butter; then add milk; stir until sugar is dis-
solving; then stir in gradually the flour sifted together with baking
powder and cornstarch. Mix well and bake in loaf pan; moderate oven.
4
No. 9. RAISIN CAKE
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 cup lard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
4 cups flour
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups sour milk
1 lb. raisins, seeded and cut
1 teaspoon baking powder or soda
Cream sugar and lard; if soda is used, dissolve in sour milk; if
baking powder, sift with the flour; add the sour milk to the sugar and
lard; stir well; then add all the dry ingredients sifted together; mix
well; then stir in the raisins and flavor with orange and vanilla blended;
3/4 hours in medium oven.
No. 10. SPICE CAKE
1 cup dark molasses
2 1/2 cups flour
2 tablespoons of butter
1 cup raisins
1 cup sour milk with 2 level tea-
1 teaspoon cinnamon
spoons of soda or same of 1/2 teaspoon cloves
sweet milk with 2 teaspoons 1/2 teaspoon allspice.
baking powder
Mix molasses and butter; add milk, and then the flour, raisins,
and spices; mix thoroughly and put in loaf pans and bake 1 hour in a
slow oven.
No. 11. EGGLESS LAYER CAKE
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon soda
3 cups sugar
2 teaspoons lemon
5 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
Mix cream, sugar, salt and lemon extract together; dissolve so la
in two tablespoons of cold water and add to the mixture. Stir in the
flour a little at a time till quite smooth. Butter two cake pans, fill half
full of batter and bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Use any filling
desired.
No. 12. BANANA CAKE
2 cups sliced banana
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup butter
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder
Mash bananas with sugar; add the water, butter and baking pow-
der and enough flour to make a doughh that drops easily from a spoon.
Bake in shallow pans in a quick oven.
5
No. 13. POOR MAN'S CAKE
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 cup butter
1 teaspoon lemon
Mix butter and sugar; stir soda into sour milk and add to butter
and sugar, but do not stir; sift flour, cornstarch and baking powder; add
them and stir thoroughly; add flavoring and bake in three layers;
spread layers with jelly or icing as desired.
No. 14. HARD TIMES CAKE
3/4 cup shortening
4 cups flour
1 cup molasses
1/2 nutmeg grated
i cup sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup strong coffee
1 teaspoon soda
Dissolve soda in coffee and add to the shortening, sugar and mo-
lasses, which have been mixed thoroughly; then add flour into which
you have stirred the spices and raisins or currants; if you choose, about
two cups will be sufficient; mix all well; put in pans lined with greased
paper and bake in a slow oven 1 hour.
No. 15. VELVET LUNCH CAKE
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 cup fresh lard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
4 cups flour
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups sour milk
1 lb. raisins seeded and cut
1 teaspoon baking powder or the same of soda dissolved in a tablespoon
of hot water
Cream sugar and lard; add the sour milk; mix flour and spices
and stir in then the raisins. Bake in loaf pans in a moderate oven.
No. 16. EGGLESS CAKE
1/2 cup butter
3 cups flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
Cream butter and sugar; add milk and stir till sugar is dissolved;
stir in gradually the flour sifted with the baking powder and corn-
starch; mix stiff and bake as a loaf cake or in three layers with any
filling desired.
No. 17. EGGLESS GOLD CAKE
1/2 cup of carrots boiled till ten- 2 cups flour
der and rubbed through a sieve
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/3 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 scant cup milk
1/2 cup raisins seeded and floured
lemon flavor
6
Mix thoroughly the carrots, sugar and shortening; add the milk
and flavor; sift the flour, cream of tartar, soda and salt; stir in well,
and add the raisins. Bake in a loaf pan in a moderate oven.
No. 18. APPLE SAUCE CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 3/4 cups flour
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup apple sauce
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1 cup currants or raisins
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
Cream sugar and butter; dissolve soda in a tablespoon of hot
water and stir into apple sauce; add to the butter and sugar; then stir
in the flour and spices sifted together and add the raisins. Bake in
a loaf pan 45 minutes; moderate oven.
No. 19. SOUR MILK CAKE
3/4 cup molasses
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon baking soda
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup sour milk
1/2 lb. raisins
Cream the butter and sugar; stir in the molasses; dissolve soda in
the sour milk and add; sift the flour, spices and baking powder together
and stir in; then add the raisins; put in loaf pans and bake in a slow
oven 1 hour.
No. 20. PORK CAKE
without eggs, butter or milk
1 lb. salt pork, ground fine
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 pt. dark molasses
1 teaspoon cloves
2 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 pint hot black coffee
1 teaspoon ginger
Pour the hot coffee, in which dissolve 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda,
over the salt pork; add the molasses, sugar and flour enough to make
a medium stiff dough; stir in the spices and 1 pound raisins and cur-
rants together, and a cup of chopped nuts and candied cherries if
desired; put into loaf pans and bake in a slow oven 1 hour.
No. 21. CRUMB CAKE
3 cups flour
1 cup sour milk
1 1/2 cups brown sugar
5 teaspoons cocoa or chocolate
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon soda
Put the flour, sugar and cocoa or chocolate into a mixing bowl; stir
all together and then rub the butter in; put soda in sour milk and add
to the mixture; add the salt and beat all together; pour into a greased
pan and bake in a slow oven; ice if desired.
7
No. 22. EGGLESS DROP CAKES
1 cup butter
4 cups flour
2 cups sugar
1 cup chopped raisins
2 cups milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon of vanilla
Cream butter and sugar; add the milk; sift the flour and baking
powder and stir in; then add the flavor and raisins; mix well and drop
in gem pans or little cake tins; bake in hot oven.
No. 23. SPICE CUP CAKES
1 cup dark molasses
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1 1/2 cups lard
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon of baking powder
1 cup boiling water
Mix the molasses, shortening and sugar together till creamy;
dissolve the soda in the hot water and add; sift the spices, salt and
flour together and stir in well. Drop in muffin tins and bake 20 or 30
minutes.
No. 24. MOLASSES CUP CAKES
3 tablespoons brown sugar
1 tablespoon ginger
5 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons dark molasses
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder
Mix all dry ingredients together; then add molasses with a little
milk; stir well; drop in greased cup cake pans and bake 20 or 30
minutes.
No. 25. GINGER NUTS
3/4 cup butter and lard
1 oz. ground allspice
3/4 cup brown sugar
1 oz. ground cloves
1 1/2 lbs. flour
1 oz. ground cinnamon
1 oz. ground ginger
Cream shortening and sugar; then work in the spices and flour
and mix to a stiff dough with molasses and let stand 1/2 hour; make into
balls about the size of a walnut, press out flat, put in a greased pan
2 inches apart and bake in a medium oven 10 minutes.
8
COOKIES, MUFFINS, ETC.
No. 1. EGGLESS COOKIES
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon soda
6 cups flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon soda
Put flour in a mixing pan, making a hollow in the center into
which put the sugar, salt and cinnamon; dissolve soda in the sour
cream and add; stir with a spoon till most of the flour is stirred in;
mix in the rest of the flour with the hands; roll in a thin sheet; use
round cutter; hot oven.
No. 2. GINGER SNAPS
1 cup molasses
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon ginger
1/2 cup/hot water
1 teaspoon cloves
Mix sugar, molasses an d butter; dissolve soda in a little hot water
an 1 add; mix the spices with enough flour to make a stiff dough; roll
very thin and cut with a small round cutter and bake in a hot oven.
No. 3. MOLASSES COOKIES
1 cup lard
2 teaspoons soda
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup boiling water
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon cloves
4 1/2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ginger
Cream. lard and sugar; add molasses, then soda dissolved in the
boiling water; mix the spices with 4 cups of flour and stir into mix-
tore, using the other 1/2 cup of flour to roll out the dough; roll thin;
cut out with large cutter and bake in a hot oven.
No. 4. GINGER COOK!ES
2 cups molasses
2 teaspoons cream of tar
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup coffee
1 cup lard
1 teaspoon ginger
pinch of salt
Mix sugar with molasses, then add salt, shortening, ginger, coffee
and cream of tartar; add enough flour to roll thin; cut with a cookie
cutter and bake 20 or 30 minutes in a hot oven.
9
No. 5. SOUR CREAM COOKIES
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup sour cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
pinch of salt
Dissolve soda in the sour cream and add to the sugar; put in
vanilla, sait and enough flour to roll thin without sticking; cut with a
cookie cutter and bake 20 or 30 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 6. FRUIT COOKIES
2 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup lard
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 cup sour milk
1 cup of raisins and nuts or 1
cup, chopped dates and figs
Cream sugar and shortening; add the soda dissolved in the milk;
mix the spices with enough flour to make a medium stiff dough; then
stir in the raisins and nuts; roll out thick, cut out with cookie cutter
and bake in a medium oven.
No. 7. LEMON TEA CAKES
2 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1/2 cup butter
1/2 pint milk
3 pints flour
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon lemon
Cream butter and sugar; add a pinch of salt and the flour into
which has been sifted the cream of tartar; mix this to a dough with the
milk, reserving a little to dissolve the soda, adding this last of all; mix
well and roll out thin; cut into small round cakes and bake in a hot oven.
No. 8. CARAWAY SEED COOKIES
3/4 lb. butter and lard
3 lbs. flour
1 lb. sugar
2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1/2 pt. cold water
1/2 cup caraway seeds
Cream the sugar with the butter and lard, then add the flour into
which has been sifted the cream of tartar; mix to a dough with the
water in which has been dissolved a teaspoon of baking soda; roll out
and cut into oblong cakes, sprinkle with caraway seeds and bake in
a hot oven.
No. 9. CHOCOLATE WAFERS
1/4 cup butter
2 squares grated chocolate
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup milk
1 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
pinch of salt
Cream butter and sugar; add the milk, then flour, salt, chocolate
and flavor; spread on buttered pans, sprinkle with a cup of chopped
nuts and bake in a medium oven.
10
No. 10. LEMON SNAPS
1 heaping cup sugar
2/3 cup butter
5
1/2 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in two of hot water
Work in enough flour to make a very stiff dough; flavor with
lemon; roll out thin; use a small round cutter and bake in a hot oven.
No. 11. CREAM MUFFINS
1 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons butter
3 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 cup cream
Sift dry ingredients together twice, then work in the butter with
the finger tips; add cream and mix well; fill muffin tins half full and
bake 15 or 20 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 12. PLAIN MUFFINS
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons lard
Mix an t sift dry ingredients; add milk and melted shortening and
beat till smooth; bake in greased muffin tins 20 or 25 minutes in a hot
oven.
No. 13. CORNMEAL MUFFINS
3/4 cups cornmeal
2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/4 cups flour
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons lard
Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk and melted short-
ening and beat we!l; bake in greased muffin tins about 20 minutes in a
hot oven.
No. 14. WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM MUFFINS
1 tablespoon sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons shortening
2 cups of whole wheat or graham flour
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add enough milk or water to make
a stiff batter; add melted shortening and bake in greased muffin tins
about 25 or 30 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 15. BRAN MUFFINS
1 cup bran
1 cup milk
1 cup graham flour
3 tablespoons shortening
1 tablespoon brown sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
Mix and sift dry ingredients, then add milk and melted shorten-
ing; beat until thoroughly mixed and bake in greased muffin tins in
a hot oven 25 or 30 minutes.
11
No. 16. CORN BREAD
1 1/2 cups milk
1/4 cup flour
2 tablespoons shortening
4 teaspoons baking powder
1344 cups cornmeal
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Sift dry ingredients into a bowl; add milk and melted shortening;
beat well and put in greased pan or muffin tins and bake in a hot oven
25 minutes.
No. 17. STEAMED CORN BREAD
2 cups cornmeal
1/2 pint sour milk
1 cup flour
1/2 pint sweet milk
1/2 pint of sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
Put the cornmeal, flour, sugar and salt in a bowl; add the sweet
milk, mix thoroughly, then stir in the sour milk in which put the soda;
mix well and divide into buttered baking powder tins and steam 3
hours.
No. 18. GINGERBREAD
1 cup molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
1 cup sour milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons ginger
1/4 cup melted butter
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
Stir the melted butter into the molasses, then sift together the
flour, spices, baking powder and salt; add the soda to the sour milk
and stir into the molasses and butter, then stir in the flour, etc.; pour
in greased pan and bake 30 or 40 minutes.
No. 19. APPLE GINGER BREAD
1 cup chopped tart apples
1 tablespoon ginger
1 lemon, boiled and chopped
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup drippings
1/2 cup cold water
Mix all together and add of flour enough to make a medium stiff
batter; stir in a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a tablespoon of water,
then stir in a teaspoon of baking powder sifted with a tablespoon of
flour; mix well and bake in a loaf or gem pans; moderate oven.
No. 20. COFFEE CAKE
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons shortening
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup milk
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add the melted shortening and
enough milk to make a very stiff batter; spread 1/2 inch thick in greased
pan and spread thickly with top mixture; bake 1/2 hour.
12
Top Mixture
2 tablespoons flour
4 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
4 tablespoons shortening
Mix dry ingredients; rub in shortening.
No. 21. SPONGE COFFEE CAKE
1 cup light, soft bread sponge or
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup soft yeast
1/2 cup sugar
1 pint sweet milk
3 cups flour
Stir all together and set in a warm place to rise; roll out in sheets
1/2 inch thick and let rise again; when light spread thick cream over
top and sift sugar over it with a little cinnamon added; bake in a
quick oven till a light brown.
No. 22. Doughnuts
1 1/2 pints milk
1/2 pound butter
1 pound sugar
1 nutmeg grated
1/2 cup liquid yeast
Mix all together and let rise over night; in the morning add
enough flour to make a soft dough and let rise again; after rolling out
and cutting, let rise again on cake board a short time before frying in
very hot lard; when done, roll in powdered sugar.
No. 23. LEBKUCHEN, OR GERMAN COFFEE CAKE
1
pound granulated sugar
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup lard
1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved
1 pint milk
in a little vinegar
pinch of salt
Cream sugar and lard; add milk, then baking soda, then cream of
tartar sifted with enough flour to make a soft, sticky batter; set on
ice till very cold; when ready, if too sticky, add a little more flour; cut
into oblong pieces after rolling out about 1 inch thick; put in flat tins
an inch apart and wash with black coffee.
No. 24. TWISTERS
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons sugar
Dissolve soda in sour milk; add sugar and enough flour to make
a stiff dough; roll 1/2 inch thick and cut into long strips, bring the
two ends of the strip together and twist; drop in a pan of smoking
hot grease; when brown, take out.
No. 25. LEMON TWIST
Take enough bread dough to make a small loaf; work into this
two tablespoons of sugar and 1/2 cup of shortening; roll out 1/2 inch
thick; spread with butter and sprinkle on a little sugar; on sugar drop
carefully a tablespoon of lemon extract; cut into 3 strips and braid
together; let rise; bake in a moderate oven 1/2 hour; very nice cut in
slices and served with coffee.
13
PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS
No. 1. FRUIT PUDDING
1 pint flour
1/4 cup sugar or dark molasses
4 teaspoons baking
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 cup finely chopped suet
1/2 cup each of raisins and cur-
3/4 cup milk if sugar is used
rants
1/2 cup milk if molasses is used
Mix dry ingredients together and add sugar, molasses and milk;
stir well and put in greased moulds; steam 2 1/2 hours if put in large
moulds, or 1 1/2 hours if put in individual moulds.
No. 2. ENGLISH SUET PUDDING
1 cup dark molasses
3 1/2 cups flour
1 short teaspoon soda
1/4 cup chopped suet
1 cup of milk or cider
1 cup chopped raisins
Dissolve soda in molasses; add milk and stir in suet, flour and
raisins; steam 3 hours in a large mould, or 1 1/2 hours in individual
moulds.
No. 3. CALIFORNIA PUDDING
Cream 1 cup of sugar with 1/2 cup butter; add 1/2 cup of dark molasses
into which 1 teaspoon of baking soda has been dissolved; add 1/2 cup
of sour milk, then stir in 2 1/2 cups of flour and then 1 cup chopped
raisins; steam 3 hours and serve with whipped cream.
No. 4. WHITE SUET PUDDING
1 cup finely chopped suet
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 cups flour
1 cup raisins or currants
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups of milk
Sift flour and baking powder and mix with the suet and sugar;
stir the mixture into the milk and add the raisins; steam 2 1/2 hours.
No. 5. BLACK NEW YEAR PUDDING
1 cup dark molasses
1 grated nutmeg
1 cup sour milk
1/8 lb. citron chopped fine
3 cups flour
4 dry figs chopped fine
1/4 lb. suet chopped fine
1 doz. almonds chopped fine
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup seeded raisins
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
3 tart apples, minced
Add the soda to the sour milk and stir into the molasses; mix
well, then stir in the flour, salt and nutmeg and add the fruit; mix all
together and steam in a buttered mould for 3 hours; dry 15 minutes in
oven. Serve with any good pudding sauce.
14
60
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
constantly till perfectly mixed. If the proportion
of flour is greater than that of the butter it will
be better to add a little of the soup to the flour
and butter in a separate saucepan as for making
white sauce, and when enough has been added
to make a smooth sauce, it may be poured into
the soup.
Brown Stock No. I
3 lbs. shin of beef
I sprig sweet marjoram
3 qts. cold water
2 sprigs parsley
1/2 teaspoon peppercorns
1/13 cup carrot
6 cloves
cup turnip
1/2 bay leaf
cup celery
3 sprigs thyme
1/33 cup onion
I tablespoon salt
Prepare the meat as directed for making stock,
brown one-third of it in a frying pan with the
fat. Wash the vegetables, scrape or pare them,
and cut them in small pieces. Put all the ingre-
dients together and bring them to a boil. When
they have boiled for ten minutes put them into
a cooker for from nine to twelve hours. Unless
there is a large quantity of soup it is not safe
to leave it more than twelve hours, lest it
grow cold and sour; but nine or more quarts
may safely be left for fifteen hours or more,
provided the kettle is at least two-thirds full.
Pour it through a wire strainer and cool it as
rapidly as possible.
SOUPS
61
Brown Stock No. 2
lbs. meat and bone, raw
3 sprigs parsley
or cooked
1/4 cup carrot
qts. water
1/2 cup turnip
6 peppercorns
1/10 cup onion
3 cloves
1/2 cup celery
1/2 teaspoon shaved lemon rind I teaspoon salt
Do not use salt or smoked meats for soup
stock, or any parts of meat which have become
charred or blackened in the cooking. Very little
of these would be enough to destroy the good
flavour of soup.
Cut from the bones all the meat that is easy
to get off. Tough ends from steak or roasts
should be cut off before they are cooked, and
saved for soup or stews. Cut meat for making
soup in small pieces. Separate the bones at the
joints and crack them if they are large. Soak the
meat in the water while preparing the seasoning.
Put all the ingredients together and bring them to a
boil. Boil them for ten minutes and put them
into a cooker for from nine to twelve hours,
standing the pan or pail in a large pail of boil-
ing water, unless this recipe fills the cooker pail.
Strain the stock through a wire strainer, and
cool it as rapidly as possible.
White Stock No. I
I chicken or fowl
Water to cover the chicken
Salt (I teaspoon to I qt. water)
62
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Cook chicken or fowl according to the directions
given on page 131 for stewed chicken. The water in
which the chicken was cooked makes white stock.
White Stock No. 2
2 lbs. knuckle of veal
I2 peppercorns
2 qts. cold water
1/2 cup celery or I tea-
I tablespoon salt
spoon celery seed
I onion
Prepare the meat as directed for making
stock. Pare and slice the onion; cut the celery
in pieces. If celery cannot easily be obtained,
substitute dried celery leaves, using three or
four sprays, or use celery seed.
Put all the ingredients together, let them boil
for ten minutes, and put them into a cooker for
from nine to twelve hours. Set the pail or pan
in a larger cooker-pail of boiling water unless
the soup nearly fills the cooker-pail.
Bouillon
3 lbs. lean beef from round or
I tablespoon salt
shoulder
1/2 cup carrot
2 lbs. marrow bone
1/8 cup onion
3 qts. cold water
1/2 cup turnip
I teaspoon peppercorns
1/2 cup celery
Prepare the meat as directed for making
brown stock. Use the marrow fat for browning
the meat. Boil all together for ten minutes
and put them into a cooker for from nine to
SOUPS
63
twelve hours. Strain the stock through a wire
strainer and cool it. When cold, remove the
fat and clear the soup as directed on page 59.
Serve in bouillon cups with crisp crackers.
Serves fifteen to twenty persons.
Beef Broth
I lb. lean beef from round or I pt. cold water
shoulder
1/4 teaspoon salt
Wash and chop the meat fine, removing any
pieces of fat. Add the salt and let the meat
soak for one hour in a cold place. In a small
cooker-pail or pan set over a larger cooker-
pail of hot, but not boiling water, heat the broth
till it registers 165 degrees Fahrenheit. Slip
the pails into a cooker for one-half hour. Strain
the broth through a coarse wire strainer, remove
all fat by the directions on page 59, and serve
it immediately in a heated cup; or it may be
chilled, or frozen to the consistency of mush.
Mutton Broth
3 lbs. mutton (from neck)
Few grains pepper
2 qts. cold water
3 tablespoons rice or
2 teaspoons salt
3 tablespoons barley
Wipe the meat, remove carefully all skin and
fat, as these impart a rank flavour to mutton
broth. Cut the meat into small pieces, or put
it through a food chopper. Cover the meat
and bones with the water, add the salt, and
64
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
when boiling put them into a cooker for from
nine to twelve hours. If barley is used, soak
it over night and cook it in a small pail or pan
set into or ove the broth n the ame cooker-pail.
When broth and barley are bo h boiling, put
the pails together and slip them nto the cooker.
Rice would be over cooked if treated in this
way, and should be cooked in the strained broth,
or separately, for one hour in the cooker. When
the broth is done, strain it and remove every
particle of fat as directed on page 59.
Consommé
3 lbs. lower part of round or 2 tablespoons butter
shoulder of beef
I tablespoon salt
I
lb. marrow bone
I teaspoon peppercorns
3 lbs. knuckle of veal
I teaspoon shaved lemon rind
I qt. chicken stock
3 sprigs thyme
cup carrot
I sprig marjoram
cup turnip
2 sprigs parsley
cup celery
1/6 bay leaf
1/6 cup onion
3 qts. cold water
Prepare the meat as directed for making
brown stock, using the marrow fat to brown half
of the meat. Soak the raw meat and bone in the
cold water while browning the remaining meat
and preparing the vegetables and seasonings.
Prepare the vegetables as directed for making
soup stock, and brown them in the butter. Bring
all to a boil together, reserving the chicken
SOUPS
65
stock. Boil for ten minutes, and put it into the
cooker for from nine to twelve hours. Strain
this stock through a wire strainer, add the chicken
stock, and, if it is not seasoned sufficiently,
add what seasoning it needs. Cool it as rapidly
as possible, and when cold, clear it according
to the directions on page 59.
It is served, usually, with custard cut into
fancy shapes; or with noodles, macaroni, or
other Italian pastes, which are first cooked as
directed on page 143; or with delicate vege-
tables, such as peas or string beans, or other
vegetables cut into fancy shapes; or with cooked
chicken, cut in dice, and green peas. A poached
egg is sometimes served in each plate of soup.
Serves sixteen or twenty persons.
Mock Turtle Soup No. I
I calf's head
teaspoons salt
6 cloves
2 cups brown stock
8 peppercorns
1 4 cup butter
6 allspice berries
1/2 cup flour
2 sprigs thyme
I cup stewed tomatoes, strained
1/ cup sliced onion
Juice 1/2 lemon
1/3 cup carrot cut in dice
Madeira wine
Clean and wash the calf's head, reserving
the tongue and brains to use for some other dish.
Soak it for one hour in enough cold water to
cover it. Boil it in a covered pail for twenty
66
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
minutes with three quarts of salted water and
the vegetables and seasoning, and put it into
the cooker for from nine to twelve hours.
Remove the head; cut off the face meat and
reserve it; boil the stock until it is reduced to
one quart. Strain and remove the fat from
it as directed on page 59; or cool it, and remove
the hard fat. Melt the butter, add the flour
and stir it until it is well browned; then add
the brown stock, one-half at- a time, stirring it
constantly, and allowing the mixture to boil
before adding the second cupful of liquid. To
this add the head stock, tomato, one cupful of
the face meat cut in dice, and the lemon juice.
Simmer for five minutes. Just before serving it
add Madeira wine to taste, more salt and pepper,
if desirable, custard cut in dice, and egg balls
or forcemeat balls. If the soup is prepared,
as it may be, some time before it is to be served,
slip the pail into the cooker until time for serving.
If kept many hours it will need to be reheated.
Mock Turtle Soup
I calf's or lamb's liver
4 cloves
I calf's heart
I teaspoon peppercorns
I knuckle of veal
2 teaspoons salt
Water to cover (about 2 qts.)
I bay leaf
1/6 cup union
4 yolks of hard-cooked eggs
1/6 cup turnip
1/2 lemon
cup celery
Madeira wine
SOUPS
67
Wash the meat, cover it with cold water in a
cooker-pail. Let it stand in a cold place while
the vegetables are being prepared. Wash the
vegetables and cut them in small pieces. Put
them and the seasonings with the meat, bring
all to a boil, and boil it for ten minutes. Put
it into a cooker for nine hours or more. Strain
it, and add to it one cupful of the heart and
liver meat cut into small dice. Pour it into
a tureen in which the lemon and the egg yolks,
cut in quarters, have been placed. Add Madeira
wine to taste. The remaining heart and liver
may be used for stew or hash.
Serves ten or eleven persons.
Vegetable Soup with Stock
2 qts. brown stock
1/2 cup cabbage
1/2 cup turnip
1/° 4 cup onion
1/2 cup carrot
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup celery
2 tablespoons rice or barley
Wash and pare the vegetables. Put all but
the celery through a coarse food chopper. Cut
the celery in fine pieces. Boil all the ingre-
dients together hard for one minute. Put
them into a cooker for three hours or more.
If barley is used, soak it over night in cold
water and boil it till soft; or cook it in the
cooker with boiling salted water for five or
six hours.
68
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Cream of Celery Soup
2 cups white stock
3 tablespoons flour
3 cups celery, cut small
2 cups hot milk
I cup water
I cup hot cream
I small onion, sliced
I teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons butter
1/20 teaspoon pepper
Cook the first four ingredients together in a
cooker for three hours or more. Rub them through
a sieve; bind the soup with the butter and flour,
as directed on page 59, and add the milk, cream,
and seasonings.
Serves six or eight persons.
Asparagus Soup
3 cups white stock, or
1/2 cup butter
3 cups water in which aspara-
cup flour
gus has cooked
2 cups hot milk
I can asparagus, or
teaspoon salt
I pt. cooked asparagus
teaspoon pepper
I slice onion
If canned asparagus is used, drain and rinse it.
Cut off the tips about an inch long, and reserve
them. Put the stalks of asparagus, stock or
asparagus water and onion into a cooker-pail.
When boiling, put them into a cooker for two
and one-half hours or more. Rub through a
sieve, bind it with the butter and flour, as directed
on page 59, and add the remaining ingredients
and the tips.
Serves six or seven persons.
SOUPS
69
Tomato Soup with Stock
I qt. brown stock
4 tablespoons butter
I can or I qt. tomatoes
1/3 cup flour
I onion
teaspoons salt
Cook the first three ingredients for one hour
or more in the cooker. Rub through a strainer,
bind it with the butter and flour, as directed on
page 59, and add the salt. Or bind the soup
before putting it into the cooker, and strain
it just before serving.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Creole Soup
I qt. brown stock
1/3 cup flour
I pt. tomatoes
3 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons chopped green
Few grains of cayenne
sweet peppers
2 tablespoons grated horse-
2 tablespoons chopped onion
radish
1/4 cup butter
I teaspoon vinegar
1/4 cup macaroni rings
Cook the pepper and onion in the butter for
five minutes, add the flour, then the stock and
tomatoes gradually, and cook all in the cooker
for one hour or more. Rub it through a sieve,
and add the remaining ingredients. The maca-
roni rings are made by cutting cooked macaroni
into very short lengths. Do not soak macaroni
for making rings.
Serves six or eight persons.
7°
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Ox Tail Soup
I small ox tail
1/2 cup Madeira wine
1 1/2 qts. brown stock
I teaspoon Worcestershire
1/2 teaspoon salt
sauce
Few grains of cayenne
I teaspoon lemon juice
2 tablespoons butter
Flour
Cut the OX tail into small pieces, wash it,
drain it, and sprinkle it with the salt, pepper,
and flour. Brown it in the butter. Add it to
the stock with the vegetables, which have been
cut small or with French vegetable cutters.
Put it into the cooker for two hours or more.
Add the seasonings and lemon juice.
Serves six or eight persons.
Julienne Soup
I qt. brown stock
2 tablespoons peas
1/4 cup carrot
2 tablespoons string beans
1/4 cup turnip
Clarify the stock and add the cooked beans
and peas and the carrot and turnip, which have
been cut into thin strips one and one-half inches
long and cooked for two hours in the cooker.
When boiling hot, serve it.
Serves four or five persons.
Macaroni Soup
I qt. brown stock
1/4 cup macaroni rings
Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water for
two hours in the cooker. Drain it in a colander.
SOUPS
7I
Cut it into very short lengths to make rings.
Heat them in the stock.
SOUPS MADE WITHOUT STOCK
Vegetable Soup
cup carrot
I pt. tomatoes
1/3
cup turnip
5 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup celery
1/2 tablespoon parsley
1/2 cup onion
2 teaspoons salt
cups potato
1 1 teaspoon pepper
I qt. water
Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrot, pare
the turnip, potatoes, and onions, remove the
leaves and strings from the celery, and cut the
vegetables in small pieces, or put all except
the potatoes and celery through a coarse food
chopper. Measure the vegetables after they
are prepared. Put them all, except the potatoes
and parsley, into a frying pan with the butter,
and cook them for ten minutes; add the potatoes
and cook them for two minutes more, then
put all the ingredients, except the parsley,
together in a cooker-pail, and when they are
boiling put them into a cooker for three hours
or more. Add the parsley just before serving.
"Left-over" vegetables, in pieces, may be added,
in place of an equal measure of any of the first
five given.
Serves six or eight persons.
72
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Bean Soup
I pt. beans
2 tablespoons Chili sauce
2 qts. water or stock
2 tablespoons butter
I onion
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 lb. lean, raw beef, if stock is
2/2 teaspoons salt
not used
1/4 teaspoon pepper
2 stalks celery
Wash and soak the beans over night, cut the
meat small, and pan-broil the pieces in a dry,
hot frying pan till brown. Put all the ingre-
dients except the butter and flour into a cooker-
pail, and when they are boiling put them into
a cooker for from nine to twelve hours. Rub
the soup through a strainer, and bind it.
Serves eight or ten people.
Black Bean Soup
I pt. black beans
teaspoon pepper
2 qts. water
teaspoon mustard
I small onion
Cayenne
2 stalks celery, or
3 tablespoons butter
1 4 teaspoon celery salt
tablespoons flour
2 teaspoons salt
2 hard-cooked eggs
I lemon
Soak the beans over night, drain them and add
the two quarts of water. Cook the onion in one-
half of the butter; add onion and celery to the
beans, and, when boiling, put them into a cooker
for from eight to twelve hours. Rub the soup
through a strainer, add the seasonings, bind it,
SOUPS
73
and when it has boiled for five minutes pour it
over the sliced eggs and lemon in a soup tureen.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Tomato Soup
I can tomatoes, or
I slice onion
I qt. raw tomatoes
2 teaspoons salt
I pt. water
teaspoon soda
I2 peppercorns
2 teaspoons sugar
I small bay leaf
2 tablespoons butter
4 cloves
3 tablespoons flour
Cook the first six ingredients together in a
cooker for one hour or more. Strain, add the
salt and soda, and bind it. If it is not to be served
at once it may stand in the cooker, to keep hot,
for an indefinite period.
Serves six or seven persons.
Purée of Lima Beans
I cup dried lima beans
I cup cream or milk
3 pts. water
4 tablespoons butter
2 slices onion
2 tablespoons flour
2 slices turnip
2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
Wash the beans and soak them over night.
Drain them, and, when boiling, cook them with the
prepared onion and turnip and the water in a
cooker for four hours or more. Rub this through
a strainer, add the seasoning and cream or milk,
and bind it.
Serves seven or nine persons.
74
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Baked Bean Soup
3 cups cold baked beans
2 tablespoons butter
3 pints water
2 tablespoons flour
2 slices onion
I tablespoon Chili sauce
2 stalks celery
I teaspoon salt
1/2 cups tomato
1/20 teaspoon pepper
Cook the first five ingredients in a cooker for
three hours or more, rub them through a strainer,
bind this with the butter and flour, as directed on
page 59, and add the seasonings.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Green Pea Soup
I can marrowfat peas, or
I slice onion
I pt. shelled peas
2 tablespoons butter
2 teaspoons sugar
2 tablespoons flour
I pt. water
teaspoon salt
I pt. milk
1/6 teaspoon pepper
If fresh peas are used take those which are too
old to be good to serve as a vegetable. If canned
peas are used, drain and rinse them, add the sugar,
water, and onion, and, when boiling, put them
into a cooker for two hours or more. Rub them
through a strainer, add the hot milk and seasoning
and bind the soup with the butter and flour, as
directed on page 59.
Bean and pea soups are very nourishing and
should not be followed by a rich, hearty meal.
Serves five or six persons.
SOUPS
75
Potato Soup
3 potatoes
2 tablespoons flour
I pt. milk
1 teaspoons salt
I pt. water
teaspoon celery salt
2 slices onion
1/20 teaspoon pepper
4 tablespoons butter
Cayenne
I teaspoon chopped parsley
Scrub and pare the potatoes and cut them into
small pieces. Cook them in a cooker with the
water and onion for one and one-half hours or
more, standing the pail or pan in a larger cooker-
pail of boiling water. Rub the soup through a
sieve, bind it, and add the seasoning.
Serves five or six persons.
Fish Chowder
4
lbs. cod, haddock, or other inch cube fat salt pork
firm white fish
I tablespoon salt
4 cups potatoes (in 3 inch dice) 1/20 teaspoon pepper
I onion, sliced
3 tablespoons butter
4 cups scalded milk
2000 cup oyster crackers
Skin the fish (see page 82), cut the flesh into
two-inch pieces, put the head, tail, and bones into
a small cooker-pail or pan, add two cups of cold
water and bring it to a boil. Set this into a
larger cooker-pail of boiling water to which
one teaspoonful of salt has been added for each
quart of water. Put the potatoes in this lower
pail and, when boiling, cook all in the cooker
for one hour.
FISH
85
until it thickens like custard. Serve at once or
it will curdle.
Serves six or eight persons.
Codfish Balls
I cup raw salt codfish, in
3 qts. cold water
small pieces
I egg
I heaping pint potatoes in
1/2 tablespoon butter
I-inch pieces
1/20 teaspoon pepper
Bring the fish and potatoes to a boil in the
water. Put them into a hay-box for one and
one-half hours. Drain and shake them, un-
covered, over the fire to dry them as boiled
potatoes, till white and mealy. Mash them
thoroughly, add the other ingredients, and mix
them together thoroughly. If necessary, add
a little more salt. Take the mixture up by
tablespoonfuls and, without moulding them,
drop them into hot, deep fat. Fry until they
are a rich brown, and drain them on brown
paper.
To test the temperature of fat for fish balls,
drop a cube of stale bread into the fat. If it
grows a rich brown in forty seconds the fat is
of the right temperature. If fat is too hot,
fried food is injured in flavour and digestibility;
if not hot enough the food will be greasy. If
fish balls fall apart in the frying, it is because
86
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
the fish and potatoes were not well dried before
adding the other ingredients.
Serves four or six persons.
Salt Fish Soufflé
I cup salt codfish
tablespoons butter
I heaping pt. potatoes
7/60 cup milk
3 qts. water
1/20 teaspoon pepper
2 eggs
Cook the fish and potatoes as for codfish balls.
When drained and dried, add the butter, milk,
pepper, and yolks of eggs; then the whites, beaten
stiff. Turn into a buttered baking-dish, and
bake until puffed and brown (about one-half
hour) in an insulated oven, the stones heated
until the paper test shows a golden brown.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Salmon Loaf
I can salmon
1/20 teaspoon pepper
1++ cup butter (melted)
I teaspoons salt
I cup soft breadcrumbs
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
4 eggs
I small bay leaf
If only hard, dry crumbs can be obtained, add
one-fourth of a cup of water to the recipe, mix-
ing it with the eggs, and soaking the crumbs
one-half hour in the mixture.
Rub the fish and butter together, add the
other ingredients, and put all into a buttered
one-quart bread-mould or water-tight empty
FISH
87.
coffee or baking-powder can. Set the mould
in enough cold water to reach two-thirds of the
way up its sides. Let this come to a boil, boil
fifteen minutes and put into the cooker for one
hour. It will not be injured by remaining in
the hay-box two hours. Or set the mould
into boiling water, boil one-half hour, and put
into the cooker for an hour.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Casserole of Fish
I cup cold flaked fish
I cup mashed potatoes
I teaspoon salt
2 hard-cooked eggs
teaspoon pepper
Butter a quart mould, put into it alternate
layers of fish, potatoes, and egg; seasoning each
layer. Stand the mould in a cooker-pail of
boiling water to reach two-thirds of the way up
its sides. Boil ten minutes and put it into the
cooker for from three-quarters of an hour to two
hours.
Serves six persons.
Cape Cod Turkey
I lb. salt codfish
4 qts. cold water
1/4 1b. fat salt pork
Wash the fish and put it on the stove in the
water. When boiling, put it into a cooker and
let it cook from one and one-half to three hours.
While this is cooking cut the pork into one-fourth
88
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
inch slices, gash the slices occasionally, nearly
to the rind. Pour boiling water over it, drain it,
and try it out in a frying-pan till brown and
crisp. When the codfish is done, drain it and
garnish it with a border of the hot, crisp pork.
Serve drawn-butter sauce and boiled potatoes
with it.
Serves six or eight persons.
Creamed Oysters
I qt. oysters
1/4 cup flour
2 cups milk or cream
$14 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup butter
Few grains of white pepper
Drain and wash the oysters. Strain the liquor
through cheese-cloth. Heat the oysters in the
liquor by themselves and scald the milk. Rub the
butter and flour together, add them to the hot
milk or cream, and let it boil. Put this mixture
with the boiling oysters and set it in a cooker
for one-half hour or more. Just before serv-
ing add the seasoning. Serve it on toast or crisped
crackers, or in croustades.
94
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
the piece and the degree of cooking desired.
A five-pound roast may be cooked four hours,
and if not found done to taste, it can be reheated
to boiling point and cooked longer. A larger
roast will require more time in the cooker. If
preferred, the meat may first be partially cooked
in the hay-box and browned in the oven after-
ward. It must then be boiled for half an hour,
cooked three or more hours in the cooker, and
then roasted. Lay a piece of raw fat on top
of the roast, or baste it with drippings to assist
in the browning.
Pot Roast
3 lbs. beef rump
2 small carrots
3 cups boiling water
2 sprigs parsley
I bay leaf
1 teaspoon celery seed, or
I small onion
1/2 cup celery, cut in pieces
Salt and pepper
Flour
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
Have the butcher bone and roll the meat,
dredge it well with salt, pepper, and flour, and
brown it on all sides in a frying-pan with a little
of the fat from the meat, or one or two tablespoons
of beef drippings or pork fat. Put all the ingre-
dients together in a small cooker-pail, - let it
simmer thirty minutes, set it into a larger pail
of boiling water and put into a cooker for nine
hours or more. Reheat it to boiling point;
strain and thicken the liquor for gravy. Round
BEEF
95
of beef may be used for pot roast, but it is drier
than the rump, which has some fat on it. Four
or five pounds of rump will make three pounds
when boned. Have the bone sent from the
market to use for soup stock.
Serves ten or twelve persons.
Beef
a la Mode
3 lbs. beef from the round
I onion
I oz. fat, salt pork
-180
teaspoon allspice
2 teaspoons salt
1/20
teaspoon nutmeg
1 It teaspoon pepper
6 cloves
Flour
2 tablespoons rendered beef fat
Water to nearly cover it
Wash the meat, lard it with the pork cut into
strips, or gash it deeply and insert the pork in
the gashes. Dredge it with the salt, pepper, and
flour, and fry it in the beef fat till well browned
on all sides. Put the meat and other ingredients
into a two or three quart cooker-pail or pan,
and nearly cover the meat with boiling water.
Let it simmer for half an hour, then stand the
pail in a larger cooker-pail of boiling water and
put it into a cooker for from nine to twelve hours.
Unless several times this recipe is cooked at
once, do not allow the meat to cook more than
twelve hours, or it may ferment. Reheat it
before serving. Strain and thicken the gravy.
Serves ten or twelve persons.
96
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Corned Beef
Order eight or ten pounds of rump of beef
corned for four days. Put it into a large cooker-
pail and fill the pail with cold water. When
it boils, allow it to simmer for thirty or forty
minutes, then put it into a hay-box for ten or
twelve hours. Reheat it before serving it. If
ordinary corned beef is used it will be more delicate
if, when it is allowed to come to a boil, the water
is changed and fresh boiling water added. It
may then be cooked as directed above for that
specially corned.
Serves twenty or twenty-five persons.
Boiled Dinner
2 lbs. lean, salt pork
I head cabbage
3 turnips
I2 potatoes
4 beets
teaspoon pepper
2 carrots
Water to cover
Wash the pork and gash it in slices; wash
and pare the vegetables. If preferred, the beets
may be cooked separately, without paring them.
Put all, except the potatoes, into the cooker-
pail and cover them with boiling water. When
boiling let them cook ten minutes on the stove,
then put the pail into the cooker for six
hours or more. Add the potatoes, reheat it
to boiling point, and replace it in the cooker
for two hours. If more salt or pepper is
BEEF
97
required add it when the potatoes are put in.
In order to save time the potatoes may be
cooked separately, drained and added to the
dinner before bringing it to a boil for serving.
Corned beef may be used in place of pork, if
preferred.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Beef Stew a la Mode
lbs. beef brisket
6 cloves
Flour
2 teaspoons salt
4 tablespoons rendered fat 2 slices lemon
I onion
1 teaspoon ground allspice
M/DO teaspoon pepper
teaspoon nutmeg
Water to cover (about I pt.)
Buy two and one-half or three pounds of
brisket to get one and one-half pounds of clear,
lean meat. Cut the meat into one inch pieces,
roll them in flour, and fry them in the fat till
brown. The onion may be sliced and added
when the meat is nearly brown. Put the meat
with the other ingredients into a small cooker-
pail, cover it with hot water, boil for ten minutes,
and cook it in a hay-box for five hours or more.
If left for many hours the meat becomes a trifle
dry, but otherwise the stew is not injured by
overcooking. The gravy may be thickened, if
desired, with flour and water mixed together
in equal parts. The bones may be put in
98
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
with the stew during the cooking and removed
before serving, or they may be used to make
soup stock.
Serves five or six persons.
Stuffed Rolled Steak
I flank steak
1/20 teaspoon pepper
I cup soft breadcrumbs
2 tablespoons butter
I teaspoon salt
teaspoon thyme or summer
savoury
I tablespoon chopped parsley
Wash the steak and remove the membrane
that covers it, unless that has been done at the
market. Make a stuffing of the crumbs, melt-
ing the butter and adding the crumbs and other
ingredients to it. If the steak is large enough,
use more stuffing than one cupful. Spread
the stuffing over the meat to within two inches
of the edge. Roll and skewer or tie it into shape.
Brown it well on all sides in a dry frying-pan,
or dredge it with flour and fry it in rendered beef
fat. Lay it in a small cooker-pail or pan. Make
two cupfuls of Brown Sauce, or enough to cover
the roll. Boil the roll for two minutes and
set the pail in a larger pail of boiling water.
Put it for five or six hours into a cooker.
When it is to be served, remove the string or
skewers, lay the roll on a platter, and pour the
gravy over it.
BEEF
99
Round steak, cut about one-half inch thick,
may be used. Remove the bone before rolling it.
Beef Stew with Dumplings
2 cups cooked or raw beef
I teaspoon salt
2 cups raw or cooked potatoes
teaspoon pepper
cup tomato
cup flour
I onion, cut in slices
I
tablespoon chopped parsley
4 tablespoons rendered fat or
I
1/2 cups water, or more
butter
If cooked meat and potatoes are used, cut
them in three-quarter-inch dice, make a brown
sauce of the fat, flour, seasoning, and water,
add the vegetables and meat and enough water to
just cover the stew. Place the dumplings on
top, boil it for five minutes, and cook in a hay-
box for one and one-quarter hours. If the
meat is tough it will be better to treat it like
raw beef. If raw beef is used, cut it in pieces,
bring it to a boil with the water, and put it into
the cooker for three or four hours before adding
the other ingredients.
Dumplings for Stew
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons lard or butter
teaspoon salt
3/2 to I cup water
Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder together,
work the fat into them with the fingers, or cut
it in with a knife. Add enough water to make a
IOO
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
stiff dough. Drop it by tablespoonfuls on the
top of the stew. The dumplings should rest on
the meat and vegetables, as they will not be so
light if submerged in the gravy.
Serves six or seven persons.
Irish Stew
3 cups meat
1/2 cup celery
2 cups potatoes
2 teaspoons salt
1/2 cup turnip
1 1/4 teaspoon pepper
1
2 cup carrot
1/8 cup flour
1/63 cup onion
4 tablespoons rendered fat
3 cups water
Wash and cut about two pounds of beef, from
the leg, brisket or other cheap cuts, into one-inch
pieces. Remove most of the fat, or all of it, if
desired. Wash and pare the turnip and carrot
and cut them into small pieces. Pare the potatoes
and cut them into one-inch cubes. Slice the onion
and cut the celery into small pieces. Roll the
meat in the flour and fry it till it is brown in the
fat. Put all the ingredients, except the remaining
flour, into a cooker-pail and, when boiling, put
them into a cooker for five hours. Mix the remain-
ing flour with an equal quantity of cold water.
Stir it into the stew, and when it has boiled it is
ready to serve. It will not be harmed by being
kept hot in the cooker for another hour or more.
Serves eight or ten persons.
BEE F
IOI
Cannelon of Beef
I lb. lean beef, chopped
2 tablespoons butter or
Grated rind 1/2 lemon
rendered fat beef
I tablespoon chopped parsley
teaspoon nutmeg
I cup soft breadcrumbs
tablespoon salt
I teaspoon scraped onion
teaspoon pepper
2 eggs
Mix in the order given, add the eggs, which
have been slightly beaten, put it into a well-
greased one-quart brown bread mould or water-
tight can. Stand the mould in a large pail of
water, arranged on a rack, if necessary to raise the
top of the mould to the level of the top of the pail.
Fill the pail with boiling water, to within one-
third of the top of the mould. Boil it for one-half
hour and put it into a cooker for four hours. If
several times this recipe is used, and put into
larger moulds, it should be boiled a longer time.
It is good served hot, with brown sauce, or cold.
Serves six or eight persons.
Meat Pie
2 cups cooked or raw meat
2 onions
2 cups potatoes
I teaspoon salt
I cup tomatoes
1 4 teaspoon pepper
2. sprigs parsley, chopped
1/2 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon celery salt
I bay leaf, broken fine
Water (about I pt.)
If cooked meat is used, cut it into three-quarter-
inch cubes. Cut the potatoes into similar pieces,
LAMB AND MUTTON
109
Mutton Stew
2 cups meat
I teaspoon salt
2018 cup tomato
1/10 teaspoon pepper
I onion
cups water, or more
I
tablespoon chopped parsley 1/2 cup butter, lard or beeffat
2 cups potatoes
cup flour
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
three-quarter-inch cubes, put it into a cooker-pail
with all the other ingredients, except the fat
and flour. The potatoes should be pared and
cut into one and one-half-inch cubes. Bring
all to a boil, boil it for five minutes and put it
into a cooker for from four to six hours. Make
a brown sauce, using the fat, flour, and liquor
from the stew. Heat the stew in this till boiling.
Or the meat may be dredged with the flour and
fried in the fat until meat and flour are brown,
before being put into the cooker. If cooked
meat is used, one and one-half hours in the cooker
will be enough, unless the meat is very tough,
in which case it may be cooked as long as raw
meat. The addition of one green pepper makes
a good variation of this stew.
Serves five or six persons.
Chestnut Stew
2 cups raw mutton
3 cups blanched nuts
2 onions
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/° teaspoon pepper
3 tablespoons flour
Water
IIO THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
three-quarter-inch cubes; peel and slice the
onions. Dredge the meat with the flour, brown
it and the onions in a frying-pan with any fat
suitable for cooking. Put all the ingredients
into a cooker-pail, barely cover them with boil-
ing water, and let the stew boil five minutes
before putting it into a cooker for four hours
or more.
Serves six or eight persons.
Syrian Stew (Yakhni)
2 cups raw mutton
2 onions
2 tablespoons fat
2 cups tomatoes
3 tablespoons flour
teaspoons salt
2 cups string beans
1/6 teaspoon pepper
Water
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
cubes, dredge it with the flour, and brown it in
the fat. Put all the ingredients together, scrap-
ing from the frying-pan all of the flour and fat.
Add enough water to barely cover them, let them
boil for five minutes, and put them into the
cooker for six hours or more, depending upon
the beans. If they are old and tough they may
require more than six hours to cook.
In Syria this stew is always served with boiled
or steamed rice.
Serves six or eight persons.
LAMB AND MUTTON
III
Okra Stew
2 cups raw mutton
2 cups tomatoes
2 tablespoons fat
2 cups okra
1/20 cup flour
1/2 teaspoons salt
2 onions
1/6 teaspoon pepper
Water
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
cubes. Wash and cut the okra in pieces, dredge
it and the meat with the flour and fry them,
till brown, in the fat. Put all the ingredients
into a cooker-pail, add enough water to barely
cover them, boil them for five minutes, and
put them into a cooker for four hours, or more.
Serves six or eight persons.
Syrian Stuffed Cabbage
I cup raw chopped meat
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/63 cup raw rice
I head cabbage
lemon
Strip off the leaves from a head of cabbage,
throw them into boiling water, and let them
stand till they are wilted. Mix the remaining
ingredients, except the lemon, using for the meat
either mutton or beef. Lay a cabbage leaf
on a plate, remove the thickest part of the mid-
rib, so that it will roll. Spread on it a rounded
teaspoonful of the mixture and roll it like a
cigarette. Do the same with the other leaves,
packing each one, as it is finished, into a pan
II2
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
which will fit over a cooker-pail, unless a pail is
used which will be nearly filled by the cabbage.
The rolls must be carefully packed or they will
float and unroll when the water is added. Cover
them with boiling water, bring all to a boil, and
boil it for five minutes, then put it directly into
a cooker, if the pail is full, or over boiling water
if not, and leave it for from four to six hours.
Take the rolls out carefully with a cake turner
or skimmer, lay them in a platter, and squeeze
the juice of half a lemon over them. They
are usually served as the meat dish for luncheon.
Serves six or eight persons.
Casserole of Rice and Meat
4 cups cooked rice (I cup raw) I teaspoon grated onion
2 cups cooked mutton
I tablespoon chopped parsley
I teaspoon salt
1/ 4 cup breadcrumbs
1/4 1 teaspoon pepper
I egg
Stock or water
Line a greased mould of one and one-half
quarts' capacity with three cups of the rice.
Remove all the fat from the meat, chop it fine,
and mix it with the other ingredients, adding
enough stock or water to barely keep it from
crumbling. Pack the meat into the mould and
cover it with the remaining cupful of rice.
Grease the cover and put it on. Stand the
mould in a large cooker-pail of water to two-thirds
LAMB AND MUTTON
I 13
of its depth, or, if it is shallow, prop it on a rack,
so that the water will reach half its depth;
boil it for fifteen minutes, and cook it for one
hour or more in the cooker. Turn it out care-
fully on to a hot platter, and pour tomato sauce
around, but not over it.
Serves six or eight persons.
Ragout of Cold Mutton
2 cups cold mutton
1/2 can peas
I onion, sliced
I teaspoon salt
I cup mutton stock
1 4 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons butter
I head of lettuce
Farina balls
Cut the mutton into one-inch cubes. Put
all the ingredients except the lettuce and farina
balls into a cooker-pail together, cover it closely,
and when boiling put it into a cooker for one
hour. Serve it on a platter garnished with
lettuce leaves and farina balls.
Serves four to six persons.
VEGETABLES
143
Macaroni
1/6 lb. macaroni (I cup broken I qt. water
in pieces)
I teaspoon salt
Break the macaroni into one-inch pieces.
Soak it in cold water for one hour, then drain it;
or cook it without soaking. Drop it into the
boiling water, let it boil, and put it into the hay-
box for one and one-half hours if soaked, or two
hours if not soaked. Stand the pail or pan in a
cooker-pail of boiling water while in the hay-box.
Macaroni will break to pieces if cooked too long.
When tender, drain it in a colander and serve it
plain, seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, or
make it into Macaroni and Cheese or Macaroni
and Ham.
Serves five or six persons.
Macaroni Italienne
I cup macaroni in one-inch 4 cloves
pieces
I small bay leaf
I pt. stewed and strained
I teaspoon salt
tomatoes
2 teaspoons sugar
I cup stock or water
1 100 teaspoon pepper
I medium-sized onion
I cup cheese, grated or shaved
Soak the macaroni in cold water for one hour;
stick the cloves into the onion. Drain the mac-
aroni, put it into a pan or pail, add the other
ingredients, except the cheese, and, when boiling,
set the pan or pail into a cooker-pail of boiling
water and put it into a cooker for two hours.
144 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Remove the onion and bay leaf and add the
cheese. If it cannot be served as soon as the
cheese is melted, slip the pail back into the
cooker.
Serves five or six persons.
Macaroni Milanaise
I cup macaroni
I cup water
I small onion
I tablespoon butter
2 cloves
1/2 cup grated cheese
I pt. tomatoes, stewed and 6 sliced mushrooms
strained
1/4 cup smoked tongue or ham,
cut in strips
Break the macaroni, soak it for one hour, then
drain it, and put it, with the other ingredients,
except the last three, into a pan or pail. When
boiling, set the pan into a cooker-pail of boiling
water and put it into a cooker for two hours.
Remove the onion and cloves, add the last three
ingredients, and when the cheese is melted it is
ready to serve. If it cannot be served at once
replace it in the cooker.
Serves six or seven persons.
Spaghetti
Spaghetti may be treated in the same way
as macaroni.
It is a similar paste moulded
into a different form. Vermicelli is also the
same paste, moulded into still finer threads. It
is frequently used in soups, and should be broken
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
155
the same fat as that used in the dough or with
butter. If a bread mould is not available, an
empty baking-powder can, coffee can, or any
tin can or box with straight sides which has a
tight-fitting cover may be used, providing it is
found by trial to be water-tight. If it leaks,
it may be soldered at small expense, and may
then be kept for cooking purposes only. Where
a tightly covered can or box cannot be pro-
cured, an uncovered utensil could be used by tying
on securely a cover of heavy, well-greased paper.
Boston Brown Bread
I cup rye meal
tablespoon soda
I cup graham flour
3/2 cup molasses
I cup corn-meal
2 cups sour milk or
I teaspoon salt
cups sweet milk or
buttermilk
Mix and sift the dry ingredients together. Mix
the liquid ingredients and add them, gradually,
to the dry mixture. Put the dough into a well-
buttered, one-quart brown bread mould or water-
tight can of the same capacity. Stand the
mould in a six-quart cooker-pail in enough warm
water to come two-thirds of the way up the mould.
Bring it quickly to a boil and boil it half an hour.
Put it into a hay-box for five hours. It will not
be spoiled by six hours in the cooker, but will not
have quite such a dry crust. If sweet milk is
156 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
used add one tablespoonful of cream of tartar;
or omit the soda and use, instead, two table-
spoonfuls of baking powder.
Serves six or eight persons.
Graham Pudding
1/4 cup butter
I2 cups graham flour
1/2 cup molasses
1/ teaspoon baking-powder
1/2 cup sweet milk
teaspoon soda
I egg
I teaspoon salt
I cup raisins, seeded and cut in pieces
Melt the butter, add the egg, well beaten,
molasses and milk. Mix the dry ingredients and
add to them the liquid mixture. Pour it into a
well-buttered, one-quart mould or into several
smaller moulds. Do not fill them more than two-
thirds full. Place the moulds on a rack in a
six-quart cooker-pail of warm water, bring quickly
to a boil and boil thirty minutes if the larger
cans are used; fifteen minutes, if the small cans
are used. Put it into the cooker for five hours.
If sour milk is available, omit the baking
powder and add an extra one-fourth teaspoonful
of soda.
Serves six persons.
Steamed Apple or Berry Pudding
I cup flour
I tablespoon butter
2 teaspoons baking powder
cup milk (sweet)
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 apples cut in eighths
2 tablespoons sugar
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
157
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, cut the butter
into them, or rub it in with the fingers, add the
milk, cutting it in, lightly, with a knife. When
the dough is barely mixed, so that no loose flour
is left, toss it on a floured board and pat or roll
it lightly till one-half inch thick. Spread the
apples on it and roll it like a jelly roll. Carefully
place it in a well-buttered, one-quart bread
mould or water-tight can. Cover it tightly and
stand it in at least a six-quart cooker-pail with
enough warm water to come two-thirds of the way
up its sides. Bring it quickly to a boil, boil thirty
minutes and place it in a cooker for three hours.
Serve immediately with warm apple sauce and
Hard Sauce. If berries are used add one cupful
to the dough, use one cupful of milk and omit the
apple-sauce.
Serves five or S1X persons.
Suet Pudding
cup chopped suet
teaspoon salt
1/2 cup molasses
teaspoon ginger
1/2 cup sour milk
14 teaspoon grated nutmeg
I cups flour
teaspoon ground cloves
state teaspoon soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add the
suet. Mix the milk and molasses and add them
to the dry mixture. Put the dough into a buttered,
one-quart bread mould or water-tight covered
158 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
can, and stand it in a six-quart cooker-pail of
warm water which reaches two-thirds of the way
up the can. Boil it one-half hour and put into
the cooker for five hours.
Serves six or eight persons.
Rich Plum Pudding
1/2 lb. raisins
3/4 cup fiour
1/2 lb. currants
1 lb. brown sugar
2 oz. candied orange peel
nutmeg, grated
2 oz. citron
tablespoon powdered cinnamon
1 4 lb. chopped suet
teaspoon ground allspice
A 1 lb. stale, soft breadcrumbs
1/4
pint brandy
cups)
4 eggs
Wash and seed the raisins; rub the currants
with a little flour, then sift out the flour and allow
water to run over the currants in the sieve until
they are clean. Spread them on a towel and
remove any stems, stones, etc., that may be
among them. Let them stand, covered with a
towel to keep out dust, until they are dry. Cut
the orange peel and citron very fine, or put them
through a food-chopper. Chop the suet or put
it and the raisins through a coarse food-chopper;
a trifle of the flour may be mixed with the suet
before it is chopped to help to keep it from
sticking to the chopping-knife. Beat the eggs till
blended. Mix all the dry ingredients very thorough-
ly, add the eggs and then the brandy. Put the
pudding into a covered, greased mould, chopping
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
159
down through it a few times with the end of a
knife, to be sure that it fills the mould without
hollow spaces, and to avoid packing it firmly.
Stand it in at least three quarts of warm water,
in a cooker-pail. Heat it slowly but steadily
till the water boils; let it boil one hour if the
pudding is in one mould, or one-half hour if it is
in two smaller moulds. Put it into the cooker
for five hours. Remove it at once from the
mould. If it is not to be used when first made,
it may be kept several weeks, replaced in the
mould and reheated before serving, by putting
it in warm water, heating it to the boiling point
and boiling it one-half hour or more. Serve it
with brandy sauce.
Serves ten or twelve persons.
Steamed Cranberry Pudding
1/8 cup butter
23 cups flour
Con cup sugar
I tablespoon baking powder
2 eggs
1/18 cup milk
I cup berries
Rub the butter till it is soft and add the sugar
gradually. Separate the eggs and add the beaten
yolks to the butter and sugar. Mix and sift the
baking powder and flour together and add a
little flour, alternately with a part of the milk,
to the dough. When all is in, add the stiffly
beaten whites and the berries. Put the mixture
I60 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
into a buttered, one-quart mould, stand it in hot
water and bring it, gradually, but steadily, to a
boil. Let it boil one-half hour and put it into
a cooker for five hours. Serve it with sweetened
cream or hard sauce.
Serves six or eight persons.
Ginger Pudding
cup butter
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup sugar
1/ 4 teaspoon salt
I egg
2 teaspoons ginger
22 cups flour
I cup milk
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually,
and the well-beaten egg. Mix and sift the dry
ingredients and add a little of the mixture alter-
nately with part of the milk. When all is in,
put the dough into a buttered mould, cover it,
and boil it one-half hour in a large cooker-pail of
water, then put it into a cooker for five hours.
Serve it with Vanilla Sauce or Nutmeg Sauce.
Serves six or eight persons.
St. James Pudding
3 tablespoons butter
teaspoon salt
1/2 cup molasses
teaspoon cloves
cup thick, sour milk
1 teaspoon allspice
is cups flour
teaspoon nutmeg
sp, teaspoon soda
lb. dates, stoned and
cut in pieces
Mix the molasses, melted butter, and milk and
add them to the dry ingredients, which have
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
161
been mixed and sifted. Add the dates and turn
the dough into a buttered, one-quart mould.
Boil it in a large cooker-pail of water for one-
half hour and put it into a cooker for five hours.
Serve with Hard Sauce.
Serves five or six persons.
Harvard Pudding
1/63 cup butter
32 teaspoons baking powder
cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
I egg
22 cups flour
I cup milk
Mix the butter and sugar, add the egg, then
the dry ingredients, previously mixed and sifted
together, alternating part of the dry ingredients
and the milk until all are in. Turn it into a
buttered, one-quart mould, boil in a large cooker
pail of water for one-half hour and put it into a
cooker for five hours. Serve it with warm apple
sauce and Hard Sauce.
Serves six or eight persons.
Swiss Pudding
cup butter
Grated rind of one lemon
7/60 cup flour
5 eggs
2 cups milk
1/63 cup powdered sugar
Cream the butter, add the flour, gradually;
scald the milk with the lemon rind, add it to the
first mixture and cook it five minutes over hot
water. Beat the yolks of eggs until they are
162 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
thick, add the sugar, gradually, and combine these
with the cooked mixture; cool it and cut and fold in
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn it into a
buttered, one-quart mould, boil it in a large cooker-
pail of water for twenty minutes, then put it into
a cooker for three hours.
Serves six or seven persons.
Rice Pudding
I qt. milk
teaspoon grated nutmeg
I tablespoon butter
teaspoon salt
1/63 cup rice
1/2 cup sugar
Heat the milk and other ingredients in a
pudding pan over a cooker-pail of water. When
the water boils, remove the pan and bring the
pudding also to a boil. When it is boiling replace
the pudding in the large pail of boiling water,
cover and put it into the cooker for three or
four hours. It may then be put into the oven
for fifteen minutes and browned, although this
is not necessary. This pudding may be cooked
all night, but if cooked more than four hours
it is not quite so creamy. Serve either hot or
cold. One-half cupful of small, unbroken seed-
less raisins may be added to this recipe.
Serves six or eight persons.
Indian Pudding
2 cups water
2 teaspoons ginger
I cup molasses
2/10 cup corn-meal
I teaspoon salt
3 cups milk
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
163
Boil the water, molasses, salt, ginger, and meal
together for ten minutes in a pail or pudding
pan. Add the scalding milk. Bring it to a
boil and set the pan in a cooker-pail of boiling
water. Put it into a cooker for twelve hours.
When done, brown in a hot oven. Serve with
plain or whipped cream.
If fresh ground or coarse Southern corn-meal
is used it may first be sifted with a coarse sieve
to remove the largest particles, which will not
grow soft with this amount of cooking. Granu-
lated corn-meal will not require sifting.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Tapioca or Rice Custard
1/6 cup pearl tapioca
2 eggs
splet cup water
I tablespoon butter
3 cups milk
cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
teaspoon vanilla
Soak the tapioca in the water for one hour.
Add the milk, sugar, butter, and salt. Set the
pan in a cooker-pail of boiling water. When
the milk is scalding remove the pan and let
the pudding come to a boil. Replace it in the
boiling water and put it into the cooker for one
and one-half hours. Take it from the cooker,
add the beaten eggs, replace it in the pail of hot
water and stir it over the fire till it registers
165 degrees Fahrenheit, using a dairy or chemist's
164 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
thermometer. Put it again into the cooker
for one hour. When cold, add the vanilla.
Rice may be used instead of tapioca.
Serves six or eight persons.
Tapioca Fruit Pudding
1/2 cup pearl tapioca
splet cup sugar
I qt. water
1/20 teaspoon salt
6 whole medium-sized apples 2 tablespoons butter
Soak the tapioca one hour, bring it to a boil
with the other ingredients in a two-quart pail,
if that will fill the cooker "nest," or in a pud-
ding pan to be set over boiling water. Put it
into a cooker for one hour. Serve cold with
cream. If it is preferred to serve the pudding
warm, use only three cups of water.
Serves s1X or eight persons.
Chocolate Bread Pudding
I qt. milk
2 or 3 eggs 86
I pt. soft breadcrumbs
1 1 teaspoon salt
2 oz. or squares chocolate
I teaspoon vanilla
2018 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
Scald the milk, add the crumbs, and soak
them for one-half hour. Separate the eggs,
reserving two of the whites for a meringue.
Beat the three yolks and one white of egg together
and mix them with half the granulated sugar.
Melt the chocolate in a pudding pan set in a
cooker-pail of boiling water, add the remaining
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
165
half of the granulated sugar, and, gradually,
the bread and milk, stirring it in well while
still over the boiling water. Then add the yolks
of eggs, salt, and vanilla. Stir it constantly,
and cook it over the water until the pudding is
I60 degrees Fahrenheit. Set the pail contain-
ing the pudding pan in a cooker for from one to
two hours. When done, put it into a baking-
dish suitable for serving, and cover the top with
a meringue made by beating the whites of eggs
till stiff, and adding the powdered sugar. Brown
the meringue in a very hot oven, watching. it
carefully that it may not scorch. Serve warm,
with cream. If preferred, two whole eggs may
be used in the pudding, and in place of the
meringue use sweetened, whipped cream.
Serves six or eight persons.
Queen of Puddings
I qt. hot milk
3 eggs
I pt. soft breadcrumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/6 cup sugar
I teaspoon vanilla, or
1/2 cup melted butter
1/ 4 teaspoon spice
1/2 glass jelly
Melt the butter in the milk; soak the crumbs
in the milk for one-half hour; beat the yolks
of three eggs and the white of one till mixed,
add the sugar, salt, and spice to them. Mix
all together and pour it into a pudding pan
166 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
to fit in a cooker-pail of boiling water. Stir it
till the pudding is I60 degrees Fahrenheit, then
cover it and put it into a cooker for from one
to two hours. Make a meringue as directed
in the recipe for chocolate bread pudding, using
the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls
of powdered sugar. Pour the pudding into a
baking-dish for serving, spread the jelly on top
and the meringue over this, and brown it in a
hot oven.
Serves six or eight persons.
Steamed Cup Custard
I qt. milk
cup sugar
4 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla, or
1/20 teaspoon grated nutmeg
Heat the milk, beat the eggs, add the sugar
and flavouring. Strain the mixture into hot
custard cups, set them on a wire rack or inverted
strainer or perforated pan, which is arranged
in a large cooker-pail of rapidly boiling water
in such a way that several quarts of water may
be below the custards but not touch the cups.
Cover tightly at once and set it into a cooker
for one-half hour.
Serves six or eight persons.
Compote of Rice and Fruit
states cup rice
3 tablespoons sugar
38 cups milk
1/20 teaspoon salt
XX
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES
White Sauce
2 tablespoons butter
I cup milk
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
Few grains of white pepper
Melt the butter over moderate heat, add the
flour, and blend the two thoroughly. Heat the
milk over hot water, add it, one-third at a time,
to the butter and flour, stirring constantly and
allowing the mixture to become perfectly smooth
and glossy before adding more milk. Season it
and allow it to come to the boiling point. If it is
not to be served immediately, cover it and slip
it into the cooker to keep hot.
Sauce for Vegetables
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 1 cup milk
2 tablespoons flour
1 1/4 teaspoon salt
cup of vegetable stock
Few grains of white pepper
Make the sauce in the same manner as
white sauce, blending the milk and water in
which the vegetables were cooked, which is
called vegetable stock.
183
184 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Brown Sauce
2 tablespoons butter or clari-
I cup brown stock
fied fat
1 4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons flour
16 1 teaspoon pepper
Brown the butter slightly, add the flour and
stir constantly until the flour is a rich brown.
Add the seasoning and stock, one-third at a time,
stirring it until smooth. If butter is not used,
add the flour as soon as the fat is melted, as
other fats will acquire a strong flavour if allowed
to brown before the flour is added. Mutton or
lamb fat, or that from smoked or salted meats,
is not suitable for brown sauce.
Drawn Butter Sauce
1/4 cup butter
I cup boiling water
2 tablespoons flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/1/2 teaspoon white pepper
Melt the butter, add the flour and season-
ing, and mix them well. Add the water, one-
third at a time, stirring until the sauce grows
smooth. When it has come to the boiling
point it is done.
Caper Sauce
Drain one-half cup of capers, and add them
to one cupful of drawn-butter sauce.
Egg Sauce
To one cupful of drawn-butter sauce add two
hard-cooked eggs, cut in one-fourth-inch dice.
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES
185
Sauce for Fish
To one cupful of drawn-butter sauce add one-
half tablespoonful of lemon juice and one-half
tablespoonful of chopped parsley.
Hollandaise Sauce
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
Yolks of two eggs
Cayenne pepper
I tablespoon lemon juice
1/2 cup boiling water
Rub the butter until soft and creamy, add
the egg yolks, lemon juice, and seasoning, and
rub them till blended, then pour on the boiling
water and stand the covered bowl, containing
the sauce, on a rack over a cooker pail of boil-
ing water and put it into a cooker for three min-
utes; or cook it on the stove over hot water as
soft custard, stirring it constantly.
Tomato Sauce
1/2 can tomatoes, or
I teaspoon salt
2 cups raw tomatoes
1/20 teaspoon pepper
I slice onion
3 tablespoons butter
1/27 bay leaf
3 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup water or stock
Cook all the ingredients but the butter and
flour in a cooker for one hour or more. Rub
them through a strainer and add this, gradually,
to the blended butter and flour.
Hard Sauce
1/6 cup butter
I cup powdered sugar
Nutmeg
186 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Rub the butter till soft and creamy, add the
sugar gradually. When perfectly blended, pile
the sauce on a small dish or plate and put it into
a refrigerating box or other cold place till time
for serving, then grate nutmeg over the top.
Fruit Sauce
I glass of jelly, or
sp cup boiling water
1/2 pint grape juice
Sugar to taste
Cut the jelly into small pieces, add the water,
and bring the mixture to a boil. Let it stand in
a cooker for one-half hour or more, or leave it
on the stove till melted. If very sour jelly is
used, some sugar may be required to make it
sweet enough. With grape juice about one-half
cupful of sugar may be used. The sugar and
water should be brought to a boil, the grape juice
added, and the sauce immediately set aside to cool.
Brandy Sauce
1/4 cup butter
2 tablespoons brandy
I cup sugar
1/2 cup milk or cream
Yolks of two eggs
Whites of 2 eggs
Warm the butter to soften, but not melt it;
add the sugar gradually, and rub the two together;
add the beaten yolks and, when mixed, the
brandy and the milk or cream. Heat the sauce
over warm water in a cooker-pail until it regis-
ters I60 degrees Fahrenheit, stirring it con-
stantly. Cover it, and set the pail into a cooker
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES
187
for twenty minutes. When it is nearly ready,
beat the whites of eggs stiff and pour the hot
sauce over them, beating it until it is smooth.
Serve immediately.
Serves six or eight persons.
Vanilla Sauce
2 tablespoons butter
I cup boiling water
I tablespoon flour
1/4 cup sugar
I teaspoon vanilla
Rub together the butter and flour in a sauce-
pan, add the water and cook until it thickens.
Add the sugar, and, when dissolved, the vanilla.
Serve hot.
Nutmeg Sauce
Make it in the same way as vanilla sauce,
substituting brown sugar for white, and using
one-eighth teaspoonful of grated nutmeg in
place of the vanilla.
Buttered Crumbs
I tablespoon butter
1/ teaspoon salt
I cup soft, stale breadcrumbs
Few grains pepper
Use bread that is at least one day old, and
not sufficiently stale to be hard. Grate the
bread, or crumble it in the fingers ; or cut it
into one-inch slices, and these into quarters,
and rub two quarters together. If any large
pieces break off, crumble them fine with the
fingers. If bread is being crumbled for scalloped
188 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
dishes, it should be carefully done; if for stuff-
ing, bread puddings, and such uses where
it becomes moistened and softened it may be
cut into very thin slices, then across into strips
and small dice one-eighth inch in size. Mix
the seasoning with the crumbs, then add them
to the melted butter. When first mixed a few
crumbs absorb all of the butter, but if lightly
stirred with a fork for several minutes they will
become evenly buttered. If richer crumbs are
needed, the quantity of butter may be doubled.
Salted Nuts
I pt. water
I cup blanched nuts
1/2 cup salt
I teaspoon butter
Blanch the nuts according to directions given
below. Boil them in the salt and water for
eight minutes, drain them and put them into
a roasting-pan or pie plate with the butter. When
warm, stir them well that the butter may coat
each nut. Bake them in a moderate oven until
they are a very light brown, stirring them fre-
quently. When they are done, spread them
out to cool and allow them to stand until crisp
before putting them into a covered receptacle.
If peanuts are used, take raw nuts.
To Blanch Nuts
Pour boiling water on to shelled nuts, let
them stand two or three minutes, drain them
THE INSULATED OVEN
245
Add the liquid, one-third at a time, mixing the
dough in three separate portions in the bowl.
Cut through these three masses until they are
barely mixed, then roll the dough to about one-
half inch thickness; cut it into biscuits, lay them
on a greased pan, brush the tops with milk or
melted butter, and bake them for fifteen or twenty
minutes in an insulated oven with stones heated
so as to turn the paper a rich, dark brown, as
explained in the test on page 225.
Cup Cake
2 cup butter
1/2 cup milk
I cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg, or
cups flour
I teaspoon vanilla
2 eggs
teaspoons baking-powder
1/+ teaspoon salt
Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the beaten
yolks of eggs. Mix and sift the dry ingredients,
add them, one-third at a time, to the butter
mixture, alternating with the milk. Beat the
whites till stiff, add them and the vanilla, beat
the dough till barely mixed, and pour it into a
greased pan. The dough should not much more
than half fill the pan. Bake it for forty minutes
in an insulated oven, tested as explained on
page 225, for loaves of cake.
This recipe may be varied by adding one-half
cupful of raisins, currants, chopped citron or
246 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
nuts. Or two ounces of chocolate may be
melted and added to the dough.
If baked in layers or in gem pans the stones
must be heated somewhat hotter than for a loaf
cake. Allow fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven.
Sour Cream Cake
3 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
I cup sugar
cups flour
3/2 cup thick sour cream
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon soda
I cup raisins
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar,
then the cream. Mix and sift the dry ingredients,
add them to the liquid mixture, then add the
raisins, which have been floured with a little
of the measured flour, and, lastly, the stiffly
beaten whites of eggs. Put it into a greased
pan and bake it for forty minutes in an insulated
oven, heated for loaf cake, as explained in the
test on page 225.
Apple Sauce Cake
(Made without butter, milk or eggs)
2 cup white veal or beef drip-
1/4
teaspoon cloves
pings
I teaspoon nutmeg
I cup sugar
I cup raisins
I cup sour apple sauce
I teaspoon soda
teaspoons cinnamon
2 cups flour
Mix the ingredients in the order given, beat
the dough well, put it into a greased pan, and
THE INSULATED OVEN
247
bake it for forty minutes in an insulated oven,
heated for loaf cakes, as explained on page 225.
This cake seems, when baked, very much like
any spice cake.
Sponge Cake
6 eggs
Juice and rind of 1/2 lemon
I cup sugar
I cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar
and lemon; beat the whites of eggs till stiff, add
them to the mixture, and when barely mixed
add the flour and salt, folding them in lightly.
Put it into a bright, ungreased tin, and bake
it fifty minutes or an hour in an oven heated
not quite so hot as for butter cakes. The paper
should turn light brown when tested as explained
on page 225.
Let the cake stand five minutes before remov-
ing it from the pan.
Plum Cake
1/2 cup butter
I cup currants
2 cups sugar
cup pickled fruit syrup or
4 eggs
molasses
1/+ cup chopped nuts
2 cups flour
1/4 cup candied orange peel
teaspoon soda
I cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 teaspoons mixed spices
Mix and sift the flour, soda, cream of tartar,
and spices. Put all the ingredients together
248 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
in the order given, flouring the fruit with a little
of the measured flour. Put it into a greased
pan and bake it for one and one-quarter hours
in an insulated oven, with stones heated as
explained on page 225, till the paper is a light brown.
Rich Fruit Cake
1/2 lb. butter (I cup)
1/2 lb. citron
1/2 1b. sugar (I cup)
1/4 lb. candied orange peel
6 eggs
I teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 cup brandy
teaspoon cloves
1/4 cup lemon juice
I teaspoon cinnamon
Rind of I lemon, grated
teaspoon allspice
2 cups blanched, chopped
I lb. raisins
almonds
I lb. currants
1/2 lb. flour cups)
Line the pan with three thicknesses of paper,
buttering the top layer. Mix the flour and spices.
Flour all the fruit except the citron. Mix the
ingredients in the order in which they are given.
The pan may be filled nearly full, as this cake
rises but little. Bake it for three hours or more
in a very moderate insulated oven. Test the
stones as explained on page 225, until the paper
will barely change colour. If, at the end of
two hours, the cake is not browned at all, take
out one or both of the stones very quickly and
heat them again till they will slightly brown the
tissue paper. The oven must be promptly closed
when the stones are removed, or the cake will be
Suet Pudding
I cup flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 cups bread crumbs
1/4 teaspoon salt
I cup finely chopped suet
Grating of nutmeg
I cup sugar
I cup milk or water
Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients,
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but-
tered pan, or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid,
and set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an
hour.
For boiling, tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil
from 2 1/2 to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way as
cake.
Serve with any of the pudding sauces, or as a cake with-
out sauce.
One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pudding, or
a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be added
to give variety.
Preparing the Meal
About 3 hours before meal time put the meat for the
stew on to cook; add the vegetables to the stew, make
the suet pudding; while it is cooking, make the coffee and
set the table. Serve the stew on a large platter with the
meat piled in the center and the pieces of vegetables ar-
ranged around it. Serve the pudding, like cake, cut in
squares without sauce.
Extra Baking
Just before starting lunch mix the bread and set it to
rise. It will be ready for the second kneading after lunch
is over. Make rolls from part of the bread dough.
White Yeast Bread
3 quarts flour
2 tablespoons salt
I quart hot water
2 yeast cakes stirred into 1/2 cup
2 tablespoons sugar
of lukewarm water
2 tablespoons lard or other fat
Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add
the hot water. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and
about 5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining
flour and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and
knead until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased
II
inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold the dough so that there
will be a layer of prunes between two layers of dough, grease
the outside, place in a greased pan, allow them to rise to
twice their size, bake.
Coffee Cake
I cup hot milk
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup lard
I teaspoon salt
1/2 yeast cake dissolved in 1/4 cup lukewarm water
Add hot milk with lard and salt, when lukewarm, add
dissolved yeast, flour enough to make the stiff batter-about
three cups, cover dish and let the batter rise, then spread in
a well greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise,
bake. If raisins are desired add 1/2 cup just before putting
into baking pan.
BREAKFAST
Thursday
RYE MUFFINS
FRIED SALT PORK WITH MILK GRAVY
COFFEE FOR ADULTS-MILK FOR CHILDREN
Rye Muffins
1 1/2 cups rye flour
2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 cups white flour
6 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons drippings
1 1/2 cup milk or water
Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquid and melted drip-
pings and beat. Put quickly into heated, greased muffin
pan and bake about 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven.
Fried Salt Pork with Milk Gravy
Cut the pork in very thin slices and fry in a hot pan until
crisp and brown. Take out pork, pour off all but 3 table-
spoons of the drippings, and into this rub 2 tablespoons
flour. Add I cup of water slowly, boil well, add a cup
of milk. Cut the fried pork in 1/2 inch pieces and mix with
the gravy.
Preparing the Meal
Put water on to boil for coffee; make the muffins. While
they are baking make the coffee, set the table, fry the pork
and make the gravy.
13
3
inches or more in depth. The next day turn the mixture
out of the pan, slice in 1/2 inch slices and brown both sides
in hot, greased pan.
Brown Sugar Syrup
Melt 2 cups of brown sugar with I cup hot water ; boil
5 minutes and cool.
Preparing the Meal
Start 2 cups of hominy to cook as a mush the day before
while lunch is being prepared. Let it cook all afternoon
and pour the part for breakfast into the pan and leave over-
night in a cold place. Set the rest aside to bake with
cheese on Saturday. The next morning make the coffee,
start to fry the mush, and while it is cooking make the
syrup and set the table.
LUNCH OR SUPPER
Friday
RICE SOUP WITH CROUTONS
RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS
Rice Soup
3 cups rice water
I tablespoon chopped onion
2 cups carrots
I tablespoon chopped celery
2 tablespoons drippings.
1 tablespoon flour
Cook the carrots, cut in small pieces and cook until ten-
der. Heat the drippings, add the onions and celery to it
and cook them 5 minutes without browning. Stir in the
flour, add this mixture to the carrots, add the rice water with
salt and pepper to taste.
Croutons
Cut stale bread into small cubes or in strips 2 inches wide,
3/4 inches thick, or in any fancy shapes desired. Dry in a
slow oven until crisp and light brown all the way through.
Rice and Corn Meal Muffins
I cup cooked rice
5 teaspoons baking powder
I cup flour
1 1/4 cups liquid
I teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons melted drippings
I cup corn meal
Mix and sift dry ingredients together, add rice to liquid
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and put
16
cook slowly until tender. Remove from fire and add about
1/2 cup sugar, or to taste. Serve either hot or cold, but not
luke warm.
Preparing the Meal
Four or five hours before meal time put the meat on to
cook; I hour before wash 6 medium sized potatoes and lay
them in the oven to bake. Wash and pare the vegetables,
remove the meat from the kettle, laying it in the warming
oven to keep warm. While the vegetables are cooking make
the apple sauce and the coffee and set the table.
If more convenient the potatoes may be peeled and quar-
tered and cooked with the other vegetables.
Extra Baking
Make bread in the morning so that it will be ready to bake
late in the afternoon when the corned beef is cooking. After
the dishes from the noon meal are washed, make and bake
the oatmeal cookies for Sunday.
Oatmeal Cookies
2 cups rolled oats
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup flour
2 tablespoons oleo
I cup sugar
I pinch of salt
I egg
3 tablespoons milk
Mix dry ingredients, add egg beaten, and milk, drop by
teaspoonsful into greased pan, bake in moderate oven.
BREAKFAST
Sunday
GRAHAM BISCUITS WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM
SCRAMBLED EGG
COFFEE FOR ADULTS-COCOA FOR CHILDREN
Graham Biscuits
112 cups graham flour
I cup liquid
I1/2 cups white flour
3 tablespoons lard or crisco
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
6 teaspoons baking powder
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly
through by cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly
with the fingers. Add the liquid mixing with a knife.
Turn the mixture on floured bread board. Roll or pat to 1/2
inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 15 to 20 minutes
in a hot oven.
20
LUNCH OR SUPPER
Wednesday
SPLIT PEA LOAF
SLICED TOMATOES
BREAD WITH OLEO
TEA-MILK
Split Pea Loaf
4 cups split peas, cooked
I beaten egg
2 cups bread crumbs
I teaspoon minced onion
I tablespoon minced parsley, celery, or other flavoring as
desired. Salt and pepper to taste.
Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its
shape add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water
or another egg. Form into loaf. Brown in oven.
Preparing the Meal
Use split peas cooked on Tuesday. A half hour before
meal time make loaf and put in oven to brown. Slice the
tomatoes. Set the table and make the tea.
DINNER
Wednesday
BAKED CROQUETTES
BAKED POTATOES
HOT CINNAMON ROLLS
BANANAS WITH LEMON JUICE
LEMONADE
Baked Croquettes
3 cups chopped meat
I teaspoon onion juice
3 cups bread crumbs
I teaspoon salt
2 cups thick white sauce
Pepper to taste
Make a white sauce by stirring 1/2 cup flour into 1/4 cup
melted fat, cook till frothy, then add slowly 2 cups milk or
water, or the two mixed, stirring all the time, and cook
again till thick, stirring till smooth.
Add cooked meat-beef, mutton, veal or pork-and bread
crumbs. Mix well, form into croquettes about 3 inches
long, lay them in greased pan, and set in hot oven to brown.
Bananas with Lemon Juice
Slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with brown sugar and lemon
juice.
28
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
9
BEETS, see
SALADS
VEGETABLES
BREADS
CAKES
Ice CREAM
BERRIES, see
JELLIES
SWEET PICKLES
PUDDING
SALADS
BISCUITS, see BREADS
BISCUIT, see Ice CREAMS
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Educator Biscuit
I egg,
I tablespoon lard,
2 cups milk,
2 cups bran flour,
I cup white flour,
Pinch salt,
Teaspoon baking powder.
Egg Biscuit
2 cups flour (coffee cups),
2 heaping teaspoons baking-powder,
2 tablespoons cream,
2 eggs beaten lightly,
2 tablespoons butter,
Milk enough to make stiff dough.
Sift flour and baking-powder together, mix with butter,
then add milk and eggs, drop in pan and bake in quick oven.
10
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Boston Brown Bread
2 cups Indian meal,
I cup rye,
I cup flour,
I scant pint sweet milk,
I 1/2 cups molasses,
Pinch salt,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in I teaspoon hot water,
2 teaspoons cream tartar or 2 heaping teaspoons bak-
ing-powder.
Steam in covered tin 4 hours. Water must be boiling all
the time.
Brown Bread
2 cups scalded milk,
2 cups thin cornmeal mush,
I compressed yeast-cake,
2 cups white flour,
I cup sugar,
Salt,
Enough Graham flour to make a stiff batter.
Let rise over night. In morning add I cup molasses, I
teaspoon soda dissolved in 1/2 cup boiling water. Then add
Graham flour to make a stiff dough. Put in pans to let rise.
Bake in moderate oven for an hour. If adding raisins, use
I cup chopped; prunes, I cup chopped; put in when mixing
for pans. Mix only stiff enough to stir with a spoon.
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
13
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. (Corn Bread.- - Cont.)
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I cup milk,
I egg,
I tablespoon melted butter.
Sift all dry ingredients and add milk, egg, and melted
butter.
Nut Bread
4 cups whole wheat flour,
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
3/4 cup sugar,
I
teaspoon salt, all sifted together.
Stir in 2 cups milk,
I well-beaten egg,
I cup chopped nuts.
Bake 45 minutes in hot oven.
Raisin Bread
4 cups flour,
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 cup sugar,
I egg,
2 cups milk,
I teaspoon salt,
I cup sultana raisins.
Sift baking-powder and flour into basin, add sugar, salt,
and raisins. Beat up egg and add milk to it, pour into dry
ingredients.
Mix well and put into covered pan and raise
20 minutes.
Bake for I hour; cover with oiled paper.
Rice Bread
Rub I cup cold rice until smooth,
Mix with I cup of flour,
(Over)
14
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
I cup of sweet milk,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
Salt to taste.
Beat hard and long; then add 2 eggs beaten separately
and very light. Bake in thin layers, put together with but-
ter.
Soda Bread
I quart flour,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
After sifting, put in 2 tablespoons sugar, and raisins to
taste,
I small teaspoon baking soda mixed in large cup but-
termilk.
Mix without making lumpy.
Work quickly, put in very hot oven for 20 minutes; cool
oven, and bake for about IO minutes more.
Walnut Bread
I egg,
1/2 cup sugar,
Pinch salt,
1 1/2 cup sweet milk,
4 cups flour,
4 large teaspoons baking-powder,
I cup chopped nuts.
Raise 15 minutes. Bake slowly 45 minutes.
Cinnamon Buns
Put into a quart measure I cup sugar, 2/3 cup butter, and
fill to I pint, with scalded milk. Let stand until lukewarm,
then add I compressed yeast cake dissolved in a little warm
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
15
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
water. Then stir in flour to make a stiff dough; just before
finishing add 2 well-beaten eggs. Then stir until dough
forms a ball on end of crank and is velvety (prepare before
breakfast). Let rise and stir down, let rise again, then roll
out to about 1/2 inch thick. Spread with butter, sprinkle
with cinnamon and sugar, roll and cut, put into pans. Raise
and bake.
Hot-cross Buns
Heat 4 cupfuls flour so it is warm to touch when sifted.
Pour over a part of flour I cupful milk that has been scalded
and cooled to blood heat. Melt 1/2 yeast cake in 1/4 cup
lukewarm water. Let stand while 2 eggs are being beaten
to stiff froth; add eggs and 1/3 cup soft butter, 2 heaping
tablespoons sugar and salt.
Add remainder of flour and yeast, beat until it blisters.
Let rise over night. Next morning knead and pat into
loaf I inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter, put I teaspoon
currants, 2 pieces citron in each. Let rise, dredge with
sugar water, + each and bake.
Tea-cakes
2 eggs beaten lightly,
I pint milk,
Equal parts lard and butter,
2 quarts flour,
A little salt,
3 teaspoons baking-powder.
Crullers
I cup sugar,
1/4 cup butter,
(Over)
16
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
I egg,
1/4 cup milk,
1 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon vanilla,
I cup flour.
Puff-ball Doughnuts
3 eggs with I cup sugar beaten until light.
Add I pint milk,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg,
I quart flour.
Sift 2 teaspoons baking-powder with 2 cups flour, add to
eggs and beat well. Add more flour until the batter is
thick and heavy. Fry in deep fat and roll in powdered
sugar.
Wheat Gems
2 eggs,
2 cups milk,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
Flour to make a stiff batter,
Salt.
Cornmeal Griddle-cakes
Beat 2 eggs lightly, stir into them I teaspoon salt and I
teaspoon soda.
Dissolve in I tablespoon boiling water 2 tablespoons of
molasses and I tablespoon melted butter.
Now beat in alternately 1/2 cup flour and I quart butter-
milk; when smooth and free from lumps stir in enough corn-
meal to make a good batter. Beat in egg mixture.
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
19
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Rice Griddle-cakes
Take I cup of warm boiled rice, cooked very soft, and
stir into a cup of sweet milk, 1/2 teaspoon salt, I tablespoon
melted butter or 2 of cream, and the yolks and whites of 2
eggs beaten separately until stiff.
Mix thoroughly, then add enough flour to hold the rice
together in a thin batter, and bake on a griddle.
Wheat-flour Griddle-cakes
Sift 1 1/2 cups of flour with I 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder.
Salt. Mix I pint of milk with 3 eggs, whites and yolks
beaten separately. Add flour and bake in hot oven.
Berry Muffins
1/4 cup butter,
2 2/3 cups flour,
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
1/3 cup sugar,
I egg,
I cup milk,
I cup berries.
Cream butter and sugar, add egg well beaten; mix and
sift flour, salt, and baking-powder. Reserve 1/4 cup to mix
with berries.
Add berries mixed with flour, last.
English Muffins
2 cups flour,
I cup milk,
I egg,
Little salt,
(Over)
20
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
4 teaspoons baking-powder.
Bake in muffin-rings on griddle.
English Muffins
I pint flour,
1/2 teaspoon sugar,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I teaspoon baking-powder,
1/2 pint milk,
2 eggs.
Sift flour, sugar, salt, and baking-powder together; beat
yolks with milk, mix with flour. Add, last, whites beaten to
a stiff froth. Bake on griddle in muffin-rings.
German Muffins
2 eggs,
I cup warm milk,
Little salt,
I cup flour,
I tablespoon butter.
First beat whites to very stiff froth; beat yolks, salt, and
little of milk together, add sifted flour and rest of milk; beat
lightly with egg-beater, add beaten whites, and bake in slow
oven.
Graham Muffins
1 1/4 cups Graham flour,
I cup flour,
I cup sour milk,
1/3 cup molasses,
3/4 teaspoon soda,
I teaspoon salt.
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
21
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Mix dry ingredients and sift, add milk to molasses, and
combine mixtures.
Rice Muffins
4 heaping teaspoons of cooked rice. While it is still
hot add a good-sized piece of butter,
I egg beaten lightly with a little salt.
Sift together 1/2 pint flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking-powder;
add this alternately with I cup of milk.
Nut Loaf
Grind 2 cups nut meats, hickory, English walnuts, al-
monds, butternuts, and black walnuts. Take a loaf of stal
bread, mix bread with nuts, salt, parsley, marjoram, 2 table-
spoons melted butter, I cup milk. Work with hands, form
into firm loaf, place in buttered pan, and bake I hour in
moderate oven, basting with butter and water. Serve cold
with mayonnaise or hot with tomato sauce.
Bread Pancakes
I cup bread crumbs soaked over night in milk - little
flour,
I pint milk,
I egg,
Little salt,
2 teaspoons baking-powder.
Popovers
4 eggs - beat whites and yolks separately,
I pint milk,
I cup flour,
A little salt.
Add whites last. Bake in warm earthen cups.
22
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Graham Popovers
2/3 cup entire wheat flour,
1/3 cup flour,
1/4 teaspoon salt,
7/8 cup milk,
2 eggs,
1/2 teaspoon melted butter.
Mix salt and flour, add milk gradually, then butter; add
egg, beaten separately. Beat 2 minutes, using Dover egg
beater. Turn into hissing gem pan, bake 30 or 35 minutes.
Do not open oven door for at least fifteen minutes after the
popovers have been put in.
Breakfast Puffs
Take dough that has been raised over night. Pull out to
thickness of doughnuts, cut into 2 1/2 inches in length, fry in
boiling lard.
Cracker Puffs
6 Boston butter crackers.
Split and soak 1/2 hour in water.
Take from water and place each half in buttered pan,
inner side up. Butter this side and bake in very hot oven.
Bake 1/2 hour; they should be puffed and brown. Serve
with preserved fruit and whipped cream, or for breakfast
with butter and syrup.
Hot Puffs
I cup sweet milk,
I cup sifted flour,
I egg,
I teaspoon butter,
Cont. on page 25
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
25
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. (Hot Puffs.- Cont.)
Pinch salt and little sugar.
Beat egg well, add salt, sugar, milk, and lastly flour.
Bake in hot oven 20 minutes.
Cinnamon Rolls
Mix a rich baking-powder biscuit dough, to which has
been added
1/2 cup sugar,
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon to each pint flour.
Roll out as nearly square as possible, spread lightly with
soft butter, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar mixed. Roll
and cut into 1/2 inch sections. Lay about 2 inches apart,
bake quickly.
Dutch Rolls
I cup lard,
1/2 cup butter,
4 cups milk,
I teaspoon salt,
5 teaspoons baking-powder,
Flour to make a soft dough.
Roll out about 1/4 of an inch thick. Sprinkle with I cup
sugar, I oz. cinnamon. Roll up as a jelly-roll and cut in
slices
I
inch
in
thickness.
Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven.
Parker House Corn Rolls
Sift together
114 cups white flour,
3/4 cups cornmeal,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I tablespoon sugar.
Chop in 2 tablespoons butter.
(Over)
26
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Add I beaten egg to 1/2 cup milk and turn into dry 111.
gredients, making a soft dough that can be handled. Ada
more milk if necessary. Turn on a board, toss lightly, roll
out 1/2 inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter. Put bits of but-
ter in center of each round, fold opposite ends to meet
center, brush top with milk and bake 15 minutes in quick
oven.
White Mountain Rolls
16 cups flour,
1/2 cup sugar,
I cup butter,
4 cups boiling milk,
Whites 4 eggs beaten stiff,
I yeast cake dissolved in very little warm water and
stirred smooth.
Have milk blood heat and add sugar and butter; add part
of flour and mix in whites of eggs, knead stiff, and leti rise
over night. In morning, knead into rolls and raise. Bake
30 minutes, after rubbing with beaten egg.
Waffles
3/4 pt. clabber (buttermilk, I pint)
I teaspoon salt,
I tablespoon melted lard.
Beat until perfectly smooth. Add flour enough to make
a soft batter. Beat hard and long, for success depends on
it. Just before putting into irons, which must be smoking.
hot, add I level teaspoon of soda dissolved in I teaspoon
hot water.
Graham Wafers
Beat to a cream 1/2 cup butter. Add gradually I cup
granulated sugar and unbeaten white of I legg. Beat vigor-
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
27
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
ously for IO minutes. Dissolve 1/2 a level teaspoon soda
bicarbonate in 8 tablespoons warm water.
Add to mixture, then stir in gradually I quart Graham
flour. Knead smooth and roll out a little at a time as thin
as a wafer. With a sharp knife cut into squares of about 2
inches and bake in a slow oven until crisp and brown.
Rye meal or whole-wheat flour may be substituted.
Waffles
2 cups of sifted flour,
I teaspoon baking-powder sifted with flour twice,
I teaspoon salt,
3 eggs,
I tablespoon butter,
2 cups of milk.
Beat the yolks smooth, add the milk, and turn this upon
the prepared flour. Whip lightly and quickly for one min-
ute, add the stiffened whites, and drop by the spoonful into
heated and greased waffle irons.
Waffles
2 cups milk,
2 eggs,
3 cups flour,
2 teaspoons baking-soda,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
I saltspoon salt,
I tablespoon butter, melted.
Sift cream tartar with flour. Dissolve soda with hot
water, beat eggs very thoroughly, add flour last.
Rice Waffles
I cup freshly cooked rice,
I heaping tablespoon butter,
(Over)
28
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Well-beaten yolks 3 eggs,
To 2 cups sour milk, add I teaspoon baking-powder.
Add to other mixture. Add flour enough to make stiff
batter, fold in whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in very
hot, well-greased waffle-irons.
BREAD PUDDING, see PUDDINGS
BRUSSELS SPROUTS, see SALADS
32
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
Black Cake
(used since 1823)
I cupful sour cream,
I cupful molasses,
I pound sugar,
I pound flour,
I pound currants,
I pound raisins,
1/2 pound citron,
1/2 pound chopped figs,
1/2 pound almonds,
3/4 pound butter,
IO eggs, leaving out whites of two,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cinnamon,
I teaspoon cloves,
I teaspoon allspice,
4 tablespoons orange marmalade,
Bake very slowly.
Boiled Chocolate Filling
I square chocolate,
As much milk as you need,
Sugar to taste,
I teaspoon cornstarch.
Boil until stiff. When cool, add vanilla.
Chocolate Cake
1/2 cup butter,
2 cups sugar,
2 cups flour,
1/2 cup milk,
CAKE
33
CAKE
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
2 teaspoons vanilla,
2 eggs,
I square chocolate.
Frosting
I square chocolate,
3 tablespoons sugar,
I tablespoon water.
Boil till it candies.
Chocolate Cake
2 eggs,
2 cups brown sugar,
1/2 cup chocolate dissolved in I cup boiling water,
1/2 cup sour milk,
2 cups flour,
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla,
1/2 teaspoon soda,
Salt.
Chocolate Loaf Cake
1/2 (scant) cup butter,
1 1/2 cups sugar,
2 eggs,
1/2 cup rich milk,
1/2 cup coffee into which dissolve 3 squares Baker's choc-
olate,
2 cups flour,
1/2 teaspoon soda (scant) dissolved in the milk.
Bake in a moderate oven.
34
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
Cookies
I cup butter,
1/2 cup powdered sugar,
I egg,
I tablespoon of brandy or sherry,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon of baking-powder.
Roll out and cut.
Peanut Cookies
Rub to a cream 1/2 pound butter and 1/2 pound granu-
lated sugar. Break into this, while beating, 2 eggs, and
stir into cream. Then add gradually 3/4 pound flour knead
well; do not be afraid that it is too stiff. Roll out dough
a
little at a time, using powdered sugar instead of flour for
pin and board. Sprinkle board with chopped peanuts and
roll dough 1/4 inch in thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter and
bake lightly.
Cornstarch Cake
Whites of 6 eggs,
2 cups sugar,
I cup milk,
2 cups flour,
3/4 cup butter,
I cup cornstarch,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon lemon flavoring,
Salt.
Delicate Cake
I cup cornstarch,
2 cups flour,
Cont. on page 37
CAKE
37
CAKE. (Delicate Cake.- Cont.)
I cup sweet milk,
2 cups sugar,
I cup butter,
Salt,
Whites of 7 eggs beaten very stiff,
I teaspoon cream tartar.
Rub butter and sugar to a cream. Sift cream tartar with
flour. Mix 1/2 teaspoon soda with hot milk. Add milk
to sugar - then flour - last eggs.
Gold Cake
I cup sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
I cup milk,
4 egg yolks,
3 cups flour,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon soda,
Salt.
Gingerbread
I cup sugar,
2 egg yolks,
1 1/2 cups molasses (Porto Rico),
I lump butter about size of an egg,
1/2 tablespoon lard,
I cup sour milk,
3 cups flour,
I good pinch salt,
I heaping teaspoon cinnamon,
I heaping teaspoon nutmeg,
1/2 teaspoon ginger,
1/2 teaspoon cloves - if you like,
(Over)
38
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
I heaping teaspoon soda dissolved in I cup boiling coffee.
Bake 20 minutes in hot oven.
Ginger Cake
2 cups molasses,
I cup butter,
I cup sour milk,
3 eggs,
2 tablespoons ginger,
I teaspoon soda.
Flour to make soft batter.
Ginger-snaps
I cup sugar,
I cup lard,
I cup molasses,
3 teaspoons ginger,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in I tablespoon of vinegar,
2 eggs,
3 tablespoons coffee,
2 cups flour,
Salt.
Hermits
Mix 2 eggs,
2 cups brown sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
1/2 cup currants,
I teaspoon ground cloves,
I teaspoon grated nutmeg,
1/2 cup raisins,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in cup hot water,
I teaspoon cinnamon.
CAKE
39
CAKE
Beat together. Add flour to make stiff paste. Roll thin,
cut into rounds, bake in quick oven.
Hickory-nut Cake
2 cups sugar,
3/4 cup butter,
I cup milk,
I cup chopped nutmeats,
3 cups flour,
3 eggs,
3 even teaspoons baking-powder.
Bake in layers - put together, with frosting made of
whites of 2 eggs, sugar, and chopped nut meats, putting 1/2
meats on top.
Hickory-nut Kisses
Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff,
I pound granulated sugar,
I cup hickory nut meats chopped fine.
Drop on buttered paper. Bake in moderate oven 15
minutes.
Boiled Icing
I cup sugar,
1 1/2 cups milk.
Boil IO minutes.
Boiled Icing (2)
Boil until stringy I cup sugar, with 4 tablespoons cold
water. Then add to the beaten white of I egg.
40
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
Brown Sugar Icing
Cook I cupful dark brown sugar with 1/4 cup milk until it
will form a soft ball when rolled between the fingers.
Remove and beat until it thickens.
1/2 cup of nuts may be added.
Maple Sugar Icing
Put maple sugar with a very little water into a pan and
melt on stove. Let come to a boil, and remove from stove.
When cool, add beaten whites of 2 eggs; beat until very
light. Cover cake and sprinkle with almonds or English
walnuts.
Mocha Icing
I cup cream,
2/3 cup sugar,
I level teaspoon butter.
Set on stove; when it threads take off and beat in 1/4 cup
strong coffee.
Lemon Jelly Cake
2 cups sugar,
3 cups flour,
I cup sweet milk,
1/2 cup butter,
3 eggs,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon soda,
For the Jelly
Grated rind of 2 lemons,
Add juice of same,
I cup sugar,
Cont. on page 43
CAKE
43
CAKE. (Lemon Jelly Cake.- Cont.)
1/2 cup water,
I teaspoon butter,
I tablespoon flour.
Boil until thick.
(Jumbles
2 eggs,
1 1/2 cups sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
I cup cornstarch,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
4 tablespoons cold water.
Nut Macaroons
Beat white of I egg until light and add gradually, while
beating constantly, I cup brown sugar. Fold in I cup pecan
nuts chopped fine, sprinkled with salt. Drop from end of
spoon on to buttered paper, I inch apart. Bake in moderate
oven until delicate brown.
Peanut Macaroons
Beat the white of I egg very stiff.
Add gradually, while beating constantly, 1/4 cup fine gran-
ulated sugar, few grains salt. Then add 5 tablespoons
finely chopped peanuts, I teaspoon vanilla. Drop on but-
tered paper, put 1/2 peanuts on top. Bake in moderate
oven.
Mrs. Morgan's Cake
2 cups sugar,
I egg,
2 cups milk,
(Over)
44
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
I cup butter,
5 cups flour,
I cup raisins sifted in flour,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
Salt.
Spice Marble Cake
Light part
Whites of 3 eggs,
1/2 cup butter,
1/2 cup sugar,
1/2 cup milk,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon cream tartar sifted with flour,
1/2 teaspoon soda.
Dark part
Yolks of 3 eggs,
1/2 cup sugar,
I cup molasses,
1/2 cup butter,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon soda,
1/3 cup sour milk,
I teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg.
Butter pan and alternate light and dark, putting light on
top. In light part, dissolve soda in hot water in dark part,
dissolve it in sour milk.
Mocha Cream Filling
I cup butter,
Yolk I egg,
CAKE
45
CAKE
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar,
Coffee extract to taste.
Wash butter to remove salt, and pat to remove water.
Beat to a cream, add beaten yolk, sugar gradually, then ex-
tract. Caramel may be added to give color.
Molasses Layer Cake
Dissolve I teaspoon soda in I tablespoon boiling water
and add to it 1/2 cup molasses. Then mix with it
I cupful brown sugar,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
I 1/4 cupfuls boiling water or coffee,
1/2 teaspoon cloves,
I teaspoon cinnamon,
3 cupfuls flour.
Beat until smooth and bake in layers.
Molasses Layer Cake
I cup molasses,
3 tablespoons butter,
I egg,
1/2 cup coffee,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in hot coffee.
Nut Cake
2 cups sugar,
I cup butter,
3 cups flour,
I cup milk,
4 eggs,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
(Over)
46
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
I teaspoon soda,
2 cups hickory nut meats,
Salt.
Oatmeal Hermits
Put 2 cupfuls of oatmeal,
I cupful of seeded raisins,
1/2 cup of English walnuts through the coarse chopper
of a meat cutter.
Mix together I cup of white sugar, salt, I cupful of
melted butter, 2 well-beaten eggs. Add I teaspoon soda
dissolved in 6 tablespoons hot sweet milk, I teaspoon each
of cinnamon and nutmeg, and 2 cupfuls of flour. Stir in
other ingredients, drop on a tin sheet about 3 inches apart,
and bake in moderate oven.
I-2-3-4 Cake
I cup butter,
2 cups sugar,
3 cups flour,
4 eggs,
I cup milk,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
Salt.
Orange Cake
3 eggs,
2/3 cup milk,
I scant cup sugar,
Butter size of egg,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
Salt.
Cont. on page 49
CAKE
49
CAKE. (Orange Cake.- - Cont.)
Filling
2 oranges, peeled, and seeds, etc., removed,
I cup boiling water,
I tablespoon cornstarch,
Scant cup sugar.
Mix cornstarch with a little cold water and add to boiling
water and sugar. Boil until it thickens and add oranges.
Ribbon Cake
2 cups of sugar,
I cup of butter,
4 eggs,
I cup of milk,
2/3 cup of flour,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
1/2 teaspoon soda,
Flavor with lemon.
Take 1/3 of batter and add 2 tablespoons grated chocolate.
Take 1/2 of remaining batter and add pink fruit coloring.
Use any kind of filling.
Sponge Cake
Four eggs beaten lightly without separating. Add 1 1/2
cups of granulated sugar and beat IO minutes. Carefully
mix 1 1/2 teaspoons of baking-powder into 2 scant cups of
flour, add to sugar and eggs, a pinch of salt and 2/3 cup of
boiling water. Put in moderate oven, after four minutes
quicken oven ; if in thin layers, bake IO minutes.
Filling for Cake
One cup milk, take out 2 tablespoons in cup, heat re-
mainder. Mix with cold milk 1 1/2 tablespoons of corn-
(Over)
50
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
starch, add the yolk of an egg beaten with 1 1/2 tablespoons
sugar. Add all to hot milk, stirring constantly until thick-
ened. When slightly cold, add flavoring.
Silver Cake
I cup sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
I cup milk,
3 cups flour,
4 egg whites,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon soda,
Salt.
Peach Shortcake
Sift I quart flour with 4 level teaspoons of baking-powder
and I of salt. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter. Add I 1/2 cups
milk. Knead quickly, roll out about I inch in thickness.
Cut to fit pie-tins. Bake in quick oven about 20 minutes.
Chop rather fine I can peaches and drain.
When cakes are done pull apart - butter bottom, spread
over it a good layer of peaches, dust with sugar, put on top
of cake and serve with whipped cream. Fresh peaches may
be used in season.
Strawberry Shortcake
With 1/2 cup sugar stir I tablespoon butter to a cream,
I egg, beaten well,
1/2 cup sweet milk,
I cup flour,
I teaspoon baking-powder,
Bake in 2 tins.
Mash berries (mix with sugar), put between and on top
of layers.
CAKE
51
CAKE
Strawberry Shortcake
To I pint rich buttermilk add I even teaspoon of soda
and beat well.
Stir in 1/2 teaspoon of salt and enough Graham flour to
make batter stiffer than cake batter.
Make into 2 thin cakes and bake in a brisk oven.
Mash I quart strawberries, sweeten, and spread between
and on top of cake.
Serve with whipped cream.
Crust for Shortcake
1 1/2 cups flour,
I teaspoon baking-powder,
I tablespoon sugar,
Little salt,
I scant cup lard and butter, melted,
Bake in quick oven.
Sponge Cake
2 cups powdered sugar,
Scant 1 1/2 cups flour,
7 eggs,
Salt,
Juice and grated rind of I lemon.
Beat yolks and sugar until very light. Add the rind of
lemon and whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Stir
in flour and lemon juice, stirring as gently as possible.
Strawberry Cake
Make a sponge cake mixture. When cold cut off top and
scoop out center. Ice outside of cake and fill inside with
strawberries and powdered sugar. Serve with cap on, iced,
and covered with whole capped berries.
Chicken Pillau
I fowl, cleaned and trussed,
2 onions,
6 whole peppers,
I teaspoon salt,
4 quarts water.
Let boil, skim. Set back and simmer until fowl is done.
Take from saucepan for gravy 1 1/2 pints broth. Wash I
cup rice and put into remainder of broth. Boil rapidly half
an hour. While rice is cooking boil 3 eggs hard.
Gravy
I tablespoon butter,
I tablespoon flour,
1 1/2 pints broth,
Salt and pepper and giblets chopped fine.
Put chicken on platter, surround with rice, garnish with
eggs. Serve gravy in boat.
80
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CUSTARDS, ETC.
sliced thin. Line a basin with caramel, put in custard, and
cook until firm about 1/2 hour.
To make caramel, cook 1/2 cup sugar and 1/8 cup water
until brown, use while warm.
Caramel Baked Custard
Mix 1/2 cup granulated sugar with I tablespoon of water
and cook over rather hot fire until brown. Shake, if in-
clined to burn. Pour into buttered pudding dish and let
harden. When hard, pour in custard mixture and bake in
pan of water.
Boiled Custard
4 eggs,
Quart milk,
A little salt,
Sugar and flavoring to taste.
Boil until thick in double boiler.
Mocha Macaroon Custard
Make a custard of
4 yolks of eggs,
1/2 cup sugar,
1 1/2 cups rich milk,
1/2 cup strong coffee,
6 tablespoons powdered macaroons,
and bake until set. When cold, cover with whipped whites
of eggs, 1/4 cup hot syrup, and 1/4 cup whipped cream. Gar-
nish with candied cherries and angelica.
Rice Custard
Soak 1/2 a cup of cold cooked rice in a pint of hot milk
until the grains separate. Add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten
86
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
DRESSINGS FOR SALAD AND FISH, ETC.
Mayonnaise Dressing
Put the oil, egg, and bowl on ice until cold.
Beat the yolk until light and foamy, then put in the oil,
one drop at a time, beating until thick, thin with a very little
vinegar and begin dropping the oil again. When there
is
enough and it is thick, add a very little salt and Cayenne.
Mayonnaise Dressing
Mix mayonnaise dressing with vinegar that beets have
been pickled in.
Peanut Cream
2 tablespoons peanut butter,
I teaspoon mustard,
I teaspoon sugar,
Salt and pepper.
Mix well into this 2 tablespoons thick cream, I tablespoon
chopped olives. Thin with vinegar, pour over either let-
tuce or celery.
Salad Dressing
I yolk of egg,
3 tablespoons of oil,
I tablespoon of tarragon vinegar,
I teaspoon of onion juice,
Salt and tobasco sauce.
Salad Dressing
I tablespoon melted butter,
I tablespoon of sugar,
I tablespoon of cold water,
3 tablespoons of vinegar,
DRESSINGS FOR SALAD AND FISH
87
DRESSINGS FOR SALAD AND FISH, ETC.
I egg,
1/4 teaspoon mustard,
Salt and pepper.
Mix beaten egg, melted butter, and water together.
Then mix vinegar, mustard, and sugar, and add to egg mix-
ture. Put in double boiler and stir until a little thick. Set
on ice until cold. This is good with cold slaw.
To Serve with Salads
Saltine crackers, buttered and sprinkled with paprika.
Put into oven and brown.
t
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
BREADS
Bannocks
1 Cupful of Thick Sour 2 Cupfuls of Flour
Milk
1/2 Cupful of Indian Meal
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Egg
A pinch of Salt
Make the mixture stiff enough to drop from a
spoon. Drop mixture, size of a walnut, into boiling
fat. Serve warm, with maple syrup.
Boston Brown Bread
1 Cupful of Rye Meal
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
1 Cupful of Graham Meal
1 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Cupful of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Indian Meal
1 Heaping Teaspoonful
1 Cupful of Sweet Milk
of Soda
Stir the meals and salt together. Beat the soda
into the molasses until it foams; add sour milk, mix
all together and pour into a tin pail which has been
well greased, if you have no brown-bread steamer.
1
2
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Set the pail into a kettle of boiling water and steam
three or four hours, keeping it tightly covered.
Brown Bread (Baked)
1 Cupful of Indian Meal
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Cupful of Rye Meal
(scant)
1/2 Cupful of Flour
1 Cupful of Milk or Water
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Put the meals and flour together. Stir soda into
molasses until it foams. Add salt and milk or water.
Mix all together. Bake in a tin pail with cover on for
two and a half hours.
Coffee Cakes
When your dough for yeast bread is risen light and
fluffy, cut off small pieces and roll as big as your
finger, four inches long. Fold and twist to two inches
long and fry in deep fat. Serve hot with coffee.
Corn Meal Gems
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Baking
1 Cupful of Corn Meal
Soda
(bolted is best)
1 Egg
2 Cupfuls of Milk
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
of Tartar
Stir the flour and meal together, adding cream of
tartar, soda, salt and sugar. Beat the egg, add the
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
5
and fry on a griddle in butter or pork fat. Serve hot
with butter and maple syrup.
Soft Gingerbread
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Ginger
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Butter or
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Lard
Stir the soda into the molasses until it foams, add
sour milk, ginger, salt and melted butter. Last of
all, add flour enough for quite a stiff batter, and
bake. This makes one sheet.
Huckleberry Cake
Pick over and wash and flour well one cupful of
fresh huckleberries. Add these to the batter for
soft gingerbread. Serve hot, with butter.
Quick Graham Bread
1 Pint of Graham Meal
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
Stir soda into the molasses, add sour milk and
salt; add all to the meal, beating well. Sweet milk
will do with a little less soda. Bake thirty minutes,
or according to heat of the oven. A moderate oven
is best.
6
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Graham Bread (raised over night)
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Tablespoonful of Lard
3 Cupfuls of Graham
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Meal
1 Yeast Cake
3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
Mix flour and meal together and rub in lard, sugar
and salt. Add yeast cake which has been dissolved
in one-half cup of cold water. Mix with warm water
at night. Set in a warm place to rise. In the morn-
ing stir and let rise to twice its bulk. Knead and
put in baking pans. Raise again and bake forty-five
minutes.
Graham Muffins
1 Pint of Graham Flour
1/2 Pint of White Flour
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Put the salt into the flour and soda into the
molasses. Stir all together and mix with milk or
water. Drop into muffin tins and bake twenty
minutes.
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes
2 Cupfuls of Sour Milk
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
2 Teaspoonfuls of Soda
Stir the soda and salt into the milk and add flour
enough to make thin batter. Fry on a well-greased
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
7
griddle. One spoonful for each cake. Serve hot with
butter and maple syrup.
Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes
1 Egg
1 Level Teaspoonful of
1 Pint of Sweet Milk
Soda
2 Level Teaspoonfuls of
Pinch of Salt
Cream of Tartar
Flour enough for thin bat-
ter
Mix soda and cream of tartar with flour. Beat
the egg, add milk and stir into flour. Fry in small
cakes on a griddle.
Jenny Lind Tea Cake
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Tablespoonful of Melt-
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
ed Butter
1 Egg
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
of Tartar
Stir salt, soda and cream of tartar into the dry
flour. Beat the egg, add sugar and butter, stir into
the flour and mix with enough milk to make batter
as thick as a cake. Bake in a moderate oven. To be
eaten hot with butter.
8
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Real Johnny Cake
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
1 Cupful of Yellow Meal
of Tartar
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
or,
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking-
powder
Add enough milk or water to make a thin batter,
and bake.
New England Buns
1 Cupful of Milk
1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 and 1/3 Cupfuls of 1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Sugar
1 Yeast Cake
2/3 Cupful of Butter or
Flour enough for Soft
Lard
Dough
1/2 Cupful of Currants
1 Teaspoonful of Extract
of Lemon
Dissolve the yeast in a half-cupful of cold water.
Scald the milk and, when nearly cold, add the yeast,
half the sugar, and flour enough to make a thin
batter; let it rise to twice its bulk. When light and
foamy, add the rest of the ingredients; sprinkle a
little flour over the currants, stir the soda into the
flour, using flour enough to make stiff dough. Set
again, then roll, cut with a cooky-cutter, about an
inch thick, and let rise again. Bake in a moderate
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
9
oven twenty-five minutes. Mix in the morning, if
wanted for the evening meal. When done, brush
over the top, while warm, with equal parts of milk
and molasses.
Nut Bread
2 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Egg
3
Teaspoonfuls of Baking- 1 Cupful of Milk
powder
3/4 Cupful of English Wal-
1/4 Teaspoonful of Salt
nut Meats, chopped
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
fine
Beat egg and sugar together, then add milk and
salt. Sift the baking-powder into the dry flour, and
put all the ingredients together. Add the nuts last,
covering with a little flour, to prevent falling, and
bake in a moderate oven one hour.
Oatmeal Bread
2 Cupfuls of Rolled Oats
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
3 1/2 Cupfuls of Boiling
1 Yeast Cake
Water
Pinch of Salt
Let the rolled oats and boiling water stand until
cool, then add the molasses, salt, and yeast cake
which has been dissolved in cold. water. Stir in flour
enough to make a stiff dough. Let it rise over night.
In the morning, stir it down and let it rise again.
Mold into loaves and let rise again.
Bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven.
This will make three small loaves.
10
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Parker House Rolls
1 Quart of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Lard
1/2 Pint of Milk
3 Tablespoonfuls of
1 Yeast Cake
Sugar
Scald the milk. When nearly cold add the yeast
cake which has been dissolved in one-half cup of
cold water. Rub into the flour, the lard, sugar and
salt. Stir all together with a knife and knead. Let
rise to twice its bulk and knead. Let rise again and
knead. Roll half an inch thick, cut into rounds,
spread with butter and double over. Rise again,
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Mix at ten
o 'clock in the morning if wanted for supper, a little
earlier in cold weather.
Popovers
1 Egg
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Cupful of Milk
Beat the egg, and stir flour and milk in slowly,
a little flour, then a little milk. Salt a little. This
will make a very thin batter. Drop into well-
buttered muffin pan, bake in a very hot oven and
serve with hot sauce for a pudding, or eat with
butter.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
11
Rye Muffins
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Rye Meal
1/3 Cupful of Yeast or
3 Tablespoonfuls of
1 Yeast Cake dissolved
Sugar
in Water
Mix with warm water at night. In the morning
add one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in
two tablespoonfuls of boiling water; stir well. Bake
in a gem-pan for twenty or thirty minutes.
Breakfast Sally Lunn
1 Egg
2 Teacupfuls of Milk
1 Quart of Flour
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
Piece of Butter the size
of Tartar
of an Egg
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar A little
Salt
Mix salt, sugar, cream of tartar and soda, with the
flour. Beat the egg, stir into it the melted butter and
milk. Stir all together and bake in a muffin pan,
fifteen or twenty minutes.
Sour Milk Biscuits
1 Pint of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Put lard and salt into the flour and soda with the
12
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
sour milk. Mix together, roll thin and cut into
rounds. Bake twenty minutes.
Spider Cake
2 Cupfuls of Bread Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/3 Cupful of Lard
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
of Tartar
Put the soda, salt and cream of tartar into the
dry flour. Rub in the lard and mix with water into a
soft dough. Roll to the size of the spider or griddle.
When the spider is hot and well greased with lard,
lay on the cake and cover. Bake ten minutes on
one side, then ten on the other. This can be made
quickly without waiting for the oven to heat. Serve
hot with butter.
White Bread
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Pinch of Salt
3 Teaspoonfuls of Sugar
1/2 Yeast Cake
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
Rub sugar, salt and lard into the flour. Dis-
solve the yeast in half a cupful of cold water. Put
all together and mix to a stiff dough with milk or
water, at night. In the morning, push it down and
let rise again. Then knead and place in a pan.
Let it rise to twice its bulk and bake thirty minutes.
CAKES
Filled Cookies
1 Cupful of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter or
of Tartar
Lard
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Milk
1Tablespoonful of Vanilla
3 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
Roll thin and cut with a cooky-cutter.
Filling for Cookies
1 Cupful of Chopped
1/2 Cupful of Water
Raisins
1 Teaspoonful of Flour
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Cook this until thick, being careful not to burn it.
Place cookies in a well-buttered pan, spread on a
teaspoonful of the filling and cover with another
cooky. Bake in a moderate oven.
Sugar Cookies
1 Cupful of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
2 Tablespoonfuls of
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon
1 Egg
Extract
Flour enough to roll
Beat the butter, sugar and egg together, add the
13
14
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
milk, stir the cream of tartar and soda into the flour
dry. Stir all together and roll.
Cream Cake
2 Eggs
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Cupful of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
(sour preferred)
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Sugar
Flavor with Lemon
Stir the soda into the cream; beat the eggs; add
sugar, salt, flour and cream; last of all, the flavoring.
Delicious Cake without Eggs
1 Cupful of Thick, Sour Pinch of Salt
Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
1/2 Cupful of Butter
mon
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful each of
1 Cupful of Chopped
Cloves and Nutmeg
Raisins
Stir the soda into the sour milk, add melted
butter and sugar, salt and spices. Put the flour
over the raisins and stir all together. This will make
one loaf or twelve little cakes in gem-pans.
Feather Cake
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
3 Eggs
3 Cupfuls of Flour
Butter the size of an Egg
1 Cupful of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
Flavor with Almond
of Tartar
Beat fifteen minutes
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
15
Cream together the butter and sugar. Add the
well-beaten eggs, then the milk. Beat together.
Put soda and cream of tartar into the flour, dry.
Stir all together with the flavoring. This will make
two small loaves.
Old-time Gingersnaps
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Butter or
1 Teaspoonful of Ginger
Lard
Boil the molasses five minutes. Remove from the
fire, and add soda, butter and ginger. When cooled
a little, stir in the flour until thick enough to roll,
then roll thin as a postage-stamp. Cut with a
cooky-cutter, and bake in a hot oven, being careful
not to burn. Shut in a tin pail. These will keep for
a long time.
Gold Cake
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
Yolks of 4 Eggs
1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
Whites of 1 Egg
1 3/4 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Flavoring
Cream butter and sugar together. Add the well-
beaten eggs, milk, flavoring and flour into which the
cream of tartar and soda have been stirred. Bake
thirty minutes in a moderate oven.
16
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Hermits
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
2/3 Cupful of Butter
mon
2 Eggs
1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg
1 Cupful of Raisins,
1/2 Teaspoonful of Cloves
Chopped Fine
Flour enough to roll
2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk
Cream the butter and sugar together, beat the
eggs, add to the butter and sugar, then stir in the
molasses, milk and spices. Add the raisins which
have been covered with flour, and, last of all, the
flour into which the dry soda has been sifted. Roll
thin and cut with cooky-cutter.
Jumbles
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon
2 Eggs
Flour enough to roll
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Cream together the butter and sugar. Stir into
the well-beaten egg. Add milk. Stir cream of
tartar and soda into the flour, dry. Beat all together
and flavor. Cut into rings and bake in a well-
greased pan.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
17
Nut Cake
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
2 Eggs
1 Cupful of Hickory Nut
2 Cupfuls of Flour
Meats, or English
Walnuts
Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the
well-beaten eggs and milk and put the soda and
cream of tartar into the flour. Stir all together,
adding nut meats, covered with flour, last.
Oatmeal Cookies
2 Eggs
2/3 Cupful of Cocoanut
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/4 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Oatmeal
1/2 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
or Rolled Oats
2 Tablespoonfuls of But-
ter
Cream the butter and sugar together and add the
well-beaten eggs. Add the remainder of the in-
gredients and drop on a well-greased baking-pan.
Bake in a moderate oven, from fifteen to twenty
minutes.
18
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
One, Two, Three, Four Cake
1 Cupful of Butter
2/3 Cupful of Milk
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
3 Cupfuls of Flour
of Tartar
4 Eggs
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Cream the butter and sugar together and add the
well-beaten eggs; beat all and add milk; beat again.
Sift the cream of tartar and the soda into the flour;
stir all together. Bake in a slow oven. This will
make two loaves.
Ribbon Cake
3 Eggs
A little Salt and flavor,
2 Cupfuls of Sugar -
Lemon or Almond
2/3 Cupful of Butter
1 Large Cupful of Raisins
1 Cupful of Milk
1/4 Pound of Citron
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
mon and Cloves
of Tartar
A little Nutmeg
1 Tablespoonful of Molas- 1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
ses
Cream the butter and sugar together, and add the
well-beaten eggs and the milk. Mix the salt, soda
and cream of tartar, with the flour. Stir all together.
Put half of this mixture into two oblong pans. To
the remainder add one tablespoonful of molasses,
one large cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped,
a
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
19
quarter of a pound of citron sliced thin, one teaspoon-
ful of cinnamon and cloves, a little nutmeg, and one
tablespoonful of flour. Bake in two pans of the
same size as used for the first half. Put the sheets
together while warm, alternately, with jelly between.
Roll Jelly Cake
4 Eggs
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Sugar
Pinch of Salt
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Extract
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
of Lemon
of Tartar
Beat together eggs and sugar, add salt and extract.
Stir into the dry flour the soda and cream of tartar.
Mix all together. Bake in a moderate oven, in a
large pan, and turn out, when done, on a clean
towel, which has been sprinkled with powdered
sugar. Spread with jelly and roll while warm.
Silver Cake
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1/3 Cupful of Butter
1 Scant Teaspoonful of
2 Cupfuls of Flour
Cream of Tartar
Whites of 3 Eggs
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
Almond Flavoring
Cream together the butter and sugar, add milk and
flavoring. Stir cream of tartar and soda into dry
flour. Last of all add whites of eggs, beaten to a
20
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
stiff froth. To make a very good cake, the butter
and sugar should be creamed with the hand. Citron
also makes it very nice.
Sponge Cake, No. I
3 Eggs
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Water
of Tartar
Pinch of Salt
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
Beat eggs and sugar together, add water and
salt, then put soda and cream of tartar into the
dry flour. Beat all together. Bake slowly.
Sponge Cake, No. 2, Grandmother's Rule
4 Eggs
1 Cupful of Flour
Pinch of Salt
1 Teaspoonful of Baking-
1 Cupful of Sugar
powder
Beat the eggs ten minutes, add sugar, and beat
again. Then add the flour, into which has been
stirred the baking-powder. Stir all together and
flavor. Bake in a moderate oven.
SOME OLD-FASHIONED CANDIES
Chocolate Taffy
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Molasses
1
Small Teaspoonful of
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Sugar
Flour
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Butter the size of a Wal-
2 Squares of Chocolate
nut
Stir the sugar, flour and grated chocolate into the
molasses and milk. When hot add the butter. Boil
until it strings. Pour into buttered tin. When
nearly cold mark into squares.
Molasses Candy
2 Cupfuls of Molasses
Butter the size of a Wal-
2 Teaspoonfuls of Vinegar
nut
1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
Put the molasses, vinegar and butter into a sauce-
pan. Boil until it strings when dropped from a
spoon, or until it is brittle when dropped into cold
water. Stir the soda in briskly and pour into a
buttered tin. When nearly cold, pull until nearly
white. Cut into small pieces or sticks and lay on
buttered platter.
21
22
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Butter Scotch
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Cupful of Butter
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Boil until it strings. Pour into buttered tin and
when cold break into pieces. This is very nice when
cooled on snow.
Pop Corn Balls (very old recipe)
1 Cupful of Molasses
Piece of Butter, half the
size of an Egg
Boil together until it strings and then stir in a
pinch of soda. Put this over a quart dish full of
popped corn. When cool enough to handle squeeze
into balls the size of an orange.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
25
Bramberries
Crust
Filling
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Cupful of Raisins
1/2 Cupful of Lard (scant)
1 Cracker
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Lemon
Just enough Water to
2/3 Cupful of Sugar
wet smooth
1 Egg
A Little Salt
Beat the egg, add sugar, salt, lemon juice and
grated rind. Roll cracker fine, chop raisins and mix
all together. Roll the crust thin, cut into rounds.
Put a spoonful of filling between two rounds and
pinch the edges together. Prick top crust with fork.
Bake in iron pan for twenty minutes.
Cream Puffs
1 Cupful of Hot Water
1 Pinch of Salt and Bak-
1/2 Cupful of Butter
ing Soda
1 Cupful of Flour
3 Eggs
Put the water and butter, into a dish on the stove.
When boiling, stir in the dry flour, into which you
have put the salt and soda. Stir until smooth and
thick. When nearly cool, add three eggs, one at a
time. Drop on a buttered pan and bake twenty
minutes in a hot oven. This will make twelve cakes.
When they are cold, make a slit in the side with a
26
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
sharp knife, and fill with whipped cream or the
following mixture:
One pint of milk, one egg, two-thirds of a cupful of
sugar, one large spoonful of flour. Beat the egg,
sugar, flour, and a little salt together till smooth and
stir into the boiling milk. Flavor with lemon.
Floating Island
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Corn-
4 Eggs
starch
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Pinch of Salt
Put the milk on the stove and heat to nearly the
boiling point. Whip whites of the eggs to a stiff
froth and drop them by spoonfuls into the hot milk
for a few minutes to cook. With a skimmer remove
these islands to a plate. Beat the yolks of the eggs
with sugar, salt and cornstarch. Stir into the milk
until it boils. Flavor and cool. Turn into a glass
dish and lay the "islands" on top of the custard.
Serve cold.
Huckleberry Dumplings
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
of Tartar
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
27
Mix ingredients together with water until thick
enough to roll. Cut into rounds an inch thick as for
biscuits. Boil one quart of huckleberries in one-half
pint of water and one-half cupful of sugar. Drop in
the dumplings. Boil for twenty minutes. Serve
with cold sauce or cream and sugar.
Coffee Jelly
1 Small Box of Gelatine
1 Scant Quart of Boiling
1 Pint of Strong Coffee
Water
1 Cupful of Sugar
Flavor with Vanilla
Soak the gelatine in cold water for fifteen minutes.
Stir into the coffee and add sugar, salt and water,
then vanilla. Pour into a mould and set away to
cool. Serve with sweetened whipped cream.
Lemon Jelly
1/2 Box of Gelatine
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/2 Cupful of Cold Water
3 Lemons
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Boiling
Water
Soak gelatine in the cold water for half an hour.
Add boiling water, sugar and juice of lemons. Stir
well and strain into mould or small cups.
28
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Strawberry Shortcake, No. I
1 Pint of Flour
1 Box of Strawberries
1/3 Cupful of Lard
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
A little Salt
of Tartar
Milk enough to make a
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
stiff dough
Put the salt, soda, lard and cream of tartar,
into the dry flour, mix with milk (water will do),
divide into halves and roll large enough for a Wash-
ington pie tin. Spread butter over one, lay the other
on top, bake twenty minutes. Hull and wash and
mash the berries and sweeten to taste. Separate
the two cakes, butter, and place the berries between.
Serve hot.
Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2
1 Tablespoonful of Butter 1 Teaspoonful of Cream
2/3 Cupful of Sugar
of Tartar
1 Egg
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1 Box of Strawberries
1 Cupful of Cream
Cream together the butter and sugar and add
the well-beaten egg and milk. Stir the cream of
tartar and soda into the dry flour and beat all to-
gether. Bake in two Washington pie tins. Hull,
wash, mash and sweeten to taste, the berries. Put
half of these between the two loaves, the other half
on top, with whipped cream on top of all.
FISH
Clam Fritters
1 Egg
1 Cupful of Milk
1 Cupful of Bread-flour and a Little Salt
Beat the egg and half the milk, adding the flour
gradually, to make the batter smooth. Salt, and
add the last half-cupful of milk. Put one clam into
one teaspoonful of batter and drop into boiling lard.
Serve hot.
Fish Balls
1 Cupful of Hot Mashed
2 Teaspoonfuls of Melted
Potatoes
Butter
1/2 Cupful of Shredded
2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk
Cod-fish
Put the fish into a piece of cheese-cloth, let cold
water run over it, and squeeze dry. Mix ingredients
all together. Take a little flour in the hand and
roll half a tablespoonful of the mixture between
the palms, to the size of a small peach. Fry in deep
fat.
To Boil a Lobster
Have a large kettle on the fire with plenty of
boiling water, deep enough to cover the lobster
31
MEAT DISHES
A La Mode Beef
3 Pounds of Beef
Potatoes
6 Onions
Salt
4 or 5 White Turnips
Take three pounds of a cheap cut of beef. Wash,
put into an iron pan, sprinkle over it salt to taste.
Pare six onions, more or less, according to size of
family, and prepare four or five small white turnips
sliced thin. Lay these around the meat, and pour
over all a quart of cold water. Put into the oven and
bake three hours. Pare potatoes enough for the
family, putting them in an hour and a half before
serving. This is a most delicious way to cook beef.
As the water cooks away, add more. Thicken the
gravy, with flour wet with water, as you would with
any roast meat.
Beefsteak Pie
2 Pounds of Beef (any
1 Onion
cheap cut will do)
1 Tablespoonful of Salt
Cut the meat into small pieces; cover with cold
water, salt and put into the oven; cut the onion into
34
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
35
small pieces and add. Bake three hours in an
earthen dish. Half an hour before serving, put over
the top a crust, made of two cupfuls of flour, two
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one-half
teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of lard.
Wet with water or milk, as for biscuits.
Beef Stew with Dumplings
3 Pounds of Shin-bone
2 Large Onions
with Meat
1 Tablespoonful of Salt
6 Potatoes
Wash the meat, put into a kettle, cover with cold
water and boil four hours. Add the salt, and more
water, as it boils away. Pare the onions, wash and
slice thin; put them in with the boiling meat, allow-
ing two hours for cooking. Pare potatoes, wash,
slice thin; put them in with the meat and onions,
allowing three-quarters of an hour for cooking.
Dumplings
2 Heaping Cupfuls of
1 Teaspoonful of Baking
Flour
Soda
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
of Tartar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Glass of Water
Roll out an inch thick and cut into round pieces.
Put these on a wire plate, on top of the meat; cover
and let boil twenty minutes. Lift them out, and
38
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Breaded Pork Chops
6 Chops
1 Cupful of Bread Crumbs
1 Egg
Pinch of Salt
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Beat the egg and milk together, adding the salt.
Dip the chops into this mixture, then into the
crumbs. Fry in hot fat. Veal cutlets can be served
in the same way.
Potted Beef
3 Pounds of a Cheap Cut 1/2 Can of Tomatoes
of Beef
Salt to taste
3 Onions
Put the meat into a kettle, cover with cold water
and boil slowly for three or four hours. Add salt
and onions, cut fine. Put the tomato through a
colander. Boil all together, and, as the water boils
away, add more. Serve the meat hot. The liquor
makes a delicious soup, thickened with two table-
spoonfuls of flour.
A Fine Way to Cook Veal
2 Pounds of Veal, or ac-
1 Egg
cording to size
of
Bread Crumbs
family
Milk, Salt and Pepper
Cut the veal into small pieces, a good size for
serving, and season with salt and pepper. Dip into
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
39
the egg, which has been beaten light, then into the
bread crumbs. Have a little pork fat (lard will do)
in a frying-pan, and cook until brown. Set on the
back of the stove and cook slowly for ten minutes.
Cover with milk, and bake in the oven very slowly
for one hour in a covered pan. The toughest veal,
cooked in this way, will be as tender as chicken.
Veal Patties
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Boiled
1/2 Teaspoonful of Poul-
Rice
try Dressing
1 Cupful of Veal
1 Egg
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Milk
Grind or chop the veal, salt and stir into the rice
with the dressing; beat the eggs, add milk, and stir
all together. Drop a tablespoonful spread out thin
on the griddle, and fry as you would griddle-cakes.
Chicken, pork, or lamb may be used instead of veal.
PICKLES
Pickled Cauliflower
1 Cauliflower
1 Teaspoonful of Whole
2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt
Cloves
1 Quart of Vinegar
1 Teaspoonful of White
Mustard Seed
Pull the cauliflower into pieces, put into cold
water with the salt, heat gradually and boil five
minutes, then drain until dry. Put this into a
glass jar. Boil the clove and mustard seed in the
vinegar, and pour over the cauliflower, hot. Have it
covered with vinegar. Seal while hot.
Green Chopped Pickle, No. I
1 Peck of Green Toma-
3 Pints of Vinegar
toes
2 Tablespoonfuls of All-
6 Large Onions
spice
4 Green Peppers
2 Tablespoonfuls of
2 Red Peppers
Whole Cloves
2
Pounds of Brown Sugar 2 Sticks of Cinnamon
4 Bunches of Celery
Put the tomatoes, onions and peppers through
the meat-grinder, or chop fine, and sprinkle over
43
46
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Chow Chow, No. I
1/2 Peck Green Tomatoes 1/4 Cupful of Ground
1 Large Head of Cab-
Black Pepper
bage
1/2 Ounce of Celery Seed
6 Large Onions
2 Pounds of Brown Sugar
1/2 Pint Grated Horse-
3 Quarts of Vinegar
radish
1 Cupful of Salt
1/4 Pound of White Mus-
tard Seed
Chop or grind tomatoes, cabbage and onions,
very fine and salt over night. Next day, drain
off the brine, add vinegar and other ingredients,
then mix well and put into glass jars. Do not cook.
Chow Chow, No. 2
1 Peck of Green Toma-
1 Tablespoonful of Cin-
toes
namon
1 Cupful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Cloves
6 Onions
1 Tablespoonful of All-
6 Peppers
spice
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Even Spoonful of Gin-
Vinegar enough to cover
ger
Cut the tomatoes, onions and peppers into small
pieces. Put the salt over them and let stand over
night. Drain off the liquor the next day and throw
it away. Mix all together, cover with vinegar and
simmer until tender. Seal in glass jars.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
47
Cold Catsup
1 Peck of Ripe Tomatoes 2 Tablespoonfuls of Pep-
2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt
per
1 Teacupful of White
4 Red Peppers
Mustard Seed
8 Celery Stalks, or
2 Teacupfuls of Chopped
2 Ounces of Celery Seed
or Ground Onions
2 Teaspoonfuls of Ground
1 Teacupful of Sugar
Cloves
3 Pints of Vinegar
Drain the tomatoes well before mixing. Mix
together, let stand a few hours and it is ready for use.
Corn Relish
18 Ears of Corn
1 Pint of Vinegar
1 Onion
4 Cupfuls of Sugar
1 Cabbage
1/2 Cupful of Salt
1/4 Pound of Mustard
2 Peppers
Cut the corn from the cob, chop onion, peppers
and cabbage, add sugar, salt and vinegar, and cook
slowly three-quarters of an hour. Ten minutes
before taking from the fire, add a very scant fourth of
a pound of dissolved mustard. Seal in glass jars.
Home-Made Cucumber Pickles
Take enough small cucumbers to fill four one-
quart jars; wash and sprinkle over them one cupful
of table salt; let them remain over night; in the
PIES
Rich Pie Crust
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Dessertspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Lard
Put salt and lard into the flour, working in the
lard with the hand until thoroughly mixed. Add
enough water to barely_wet,-ice-cold water is best.
This is sufficient for two pies.
Pork Apple Pie
4 Apples
1 Teaspoonful of Ground
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
Cinnamon
12 Pieces of Fat Salt
Pork, size of a Pea
Line a pie-plate with rich crust; pare, core and
slice apples thin, to fill the plate; sprinkle over these
the sugar, cinnamon and pork; cover with crust and
bake in moderate oven. To be eaten warm.
Chocolate Custard Pie
1 Pint of Milk
2 Tablespoonfuls of Cocoa
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
or
3 Eggs
1 Square of Chocolate
Pinch of Salt
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
52
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
53
Beat yolks of eggs and add sugar and salt. Wet
the cocoa with half a cup of warm milk and stir into
the yolks. Flavor. Line a deep pie-plate with rich
pie-crust, pinching a little edge around the plate.
Pour in the mixture and bake until it rises. Beat
the whites to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of
sugar, spread over the pie and brown in a hot oven.
Cocoanut Pie
1 Pint of Milk
1/2 Cupful of Grated
3 Eggs
Cocoanut
Pinch of Salt
Piece of Butter the size
of a Marble
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add sugar and salt
and beat again. Put in the butter which has been
melted, milk and cocoanut. Line a deep pie-plate
with pie-crust and pour in the mixture. Bake until
it rises-this is not nice if baked too long. Beat the
whites of the eggs stiff and put on top of pie when it
is cool. Set in the oven to brown.
Cranberry Pie
1 Quart of Cranberries
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
2 1/2 Cupfuls of Water
Line a deep pie-plate with crust. Put the cran-
berries on the stove, with the water, and cook until
tender, then rub them through a colander. Put in
two scant cupfuls of sugar, and boil for fifteen
54
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
minutes. When cool, pour this into the plate, lay
narrow strips of pie-crust from the center to the
outer edge, and bake in a hot oven.
Cream Pie
1 Cupful of Sweet Cream 2/3 Cupful of Sugar
White of One Egg
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Bake with two crusts. Beat white of egg till
stiff; add sugar, beat again; stir in the cream and
flavor-
Old-Time Custard Pie
1 Pint of Milk
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
3 Eggs
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Line a deep plate with pie-crust, rolling it large
enough to pinch up a little edge around the plate.
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add sugar and salt, and
beat again; then add the milk and stir well. Pour
into the plate. Bake until it rises, being sure to
remove from the oven before it wheys. Grate over
the top a little nutmeg. The quality of the pie
depends largely on the baking.
Frosted Lemon Pie
1 Lemon
3 Eggs
1 Cupful of Sugar
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Milk
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the flour, the juice
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
55
and rind of the lemon. Beat all together, add a
little of the milk, and sugar; beat, then add the rest
of the milk. Line a plate with crust, the same as for
custard; pour in this mixture and bake, being careful
not to let it whey when it is done. Beat the whites of
the eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of
sugar, spread over the top, and set in the oven to
brown.
Mock Mince Pie
1 1/2 Crackers
1 Cupful of Steeped Tea
1 Cupful of Raisins
1 Egg
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
Spices of all kinds (1/2
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Teaspoonful of each)
1/3 Cupful of Vinegar
Pumpkin Pie, No. I
3 Cupfuls of Pumpkin
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
(the bright yellow
mon
kind preferred)
1/2 Teaspoonful of Nut-
3 Eggs
meg
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Sugar
1 Quart of Milk, a little
1 Heaping Tablespoonful
Salt
of Flour
Boil the pumpkin till very tender and press
through a colander. Mix all ingredients together.
Line two deep pie-plates with a nice crust, and pour
in the mixture, and bake until they rise.
56
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Pumpkin Pie, No. 2
2 Cupfuls of Stewed and
1 Cupful of Sugar
Sifted Pumpkin
Pinch of Salt
2 Crackers Rolled Fine
1/2 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
Boston Crackers or 3
mon
Uneedas
1 Pint of Milk
Pour the mixture into a deep pie-plate lined with
crust, and bake in a slow oven one hour.
Rhubarb Pie
1 Pint of Rhubarb
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Tablespoonful of Flour 1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
Remove the skin, and cut into small pieces
enough rhubarb to fill a pint bowl. Add the soda,
and pour over it boiling water to cover. Let stand
fifteen minutes and pour off the water. Line a deep
plate with a rich crust. Put in the rhubarb, sugar
and flour, cover with crust. Bake twenty minutes
or half an hour.
Rolley Polys
Roll pie crust very thin and cut into strips four
inches long and three inches wide. Over these
spread jelly and lap the crust over, pressing edges
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
57
together. Brush over the top with milk and sprinkle
over a little sugar. Bake fifteen minutes.
Squash Pie
2 Cupfuls of Squash
1 Teaspoonful of Ground
5 Tablespoonfuls of
Cinnamon
Sugar
1/4 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Flour
1 Egg
2 Cupfuls of Milk
Pare the squash, boil till tender, and sift through a
colander. Beat the egg, add sugar, flour, cinnamon
and salt. Stir these into the squash and add the
milk, stirring in slowly. Bake in a deep plate, like
a custard pie.
Cream Washington Pies
1 Egg
2 Tablespoonfuls of
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Melted Butter
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Rounding Teaspoonful
1/2 Cupful of Milk (scant)
of Cream of Tartar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
Cream butter and sugar together, add the well-
beaten egg; then the milk into which has been stirred
the soda and cream of tartar; last of all, the flour.
Bake in three round shallow dishes.
58
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Cream for Filling
1 Cupful of Milk
1 Heaping Tablespoonful
1 Egg
of Flour
A Little Salt
2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Put the milk on the stove to heat. Put the sugar,
flour and salt into the well-beaten egg and stir into
the milk when boiling. When cool, add vanilla and
spread between the layers of cake.
PUDDINGS
Bread Pudding
1 Pint of Stale Bread
1/2 Cupful of Raisins
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
1 Cupful of Sugar
mon
1 Egg
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Pour hot water over the stale bread and let soak
until soft. Then add other ingredients and bake
for three hours in a moderate oven. If eaten cold,
serve with hot sauce. If eaten hot, serve with cold
sauce.
Steamed Chocolate Pudding
Butter size of a Walnut
1 Square of Chocolate, or
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Two Dessertspoon-
1/2 Cupful of Milk
fuls of Cocoa
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Egg
1 Teaspoonful of Baking- Salt
to
Taste
powder
Cream together the butter and sugar, then add
egg and milk; then the cocoa, flour, salt, and flavor-
ing. Steam for an hour and a half, and serve hot
with sauce.
70
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
71
Graham Pudding
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Graham
1 Egg
Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Cupful of Raisins and
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Currants, mixed
1/4 Cupful of Butter
Salt and Spice to taste
Stir the soda into the molasses, then add the
beaten egg and milk, salt and spice, and melted
butter. Add the flour and, last of all, currants
and raisins, which have been sprinkled with flour.
Steam two hours in a tin pail set in a kettle of water
and serve hot with sauce.
Hasty Pudding
Into a dish of boiling water (a double boiler is
best) stir Indian meal, very slowly. Let it cook for
an hour. The water should be salted a little. Turn
this into a bowl. The next day, or when perfectly
cold, cut into slices and fry in pork fat or hot lard.
This is served with molasses.
Baked Indian Pudding
2 Quarts of Milk
1 Cupful of Molasses
1
Cupful of Yellow Corn- 1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
meal
Put one quart of the milk into an earthen pudding-
pot, and the other quart of the milk into an agate
72
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
dish, on the stove, to scald. Stir the meal into the
hot milk slowly, one handful at a time, until it
thickens. Remove from the stove and add molasses,
pouring the mixture into the cold milk. Bake six
hours in a slow oven; serve warm with cream. If
properly cooked; it will be red and full of whey.
Orange Pudding
4 Oranges
3 Eggs
3 Cupfuls of Milk
2 Tablespoonfuls of Corn-
1 Cupful of Sugar
starch
Pinch of Salt
Remove peel and seeds from the fruit and cut
fine. Sprinkle over the oranges half the sugar.
Let stand for a few hours. Beat the yolks of the
eggs, add the rest of the sugar, cornstarch and salt,
and stir into the boiling milk. Pour this, when
cooled, over the oranges and sugar. Beat the
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add two table-
spoonfuls of sugar. Spread this over the top and
brown in the oven. To be eaten cold.
Plum Pudding
Take ten or twelve Boston crackers, split them
open and soak over night in milk. Use a large pud-
ding dish that will hold three or four quarts. Put in
a layer of crackers, a handful of raisins, two table-
spoonfuls of sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, and a
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
73
little butter on the crackers; repeat this three times.
Have a layer of crackers on the top. Make a custard
of three or four eggs, five is better, one cupful of
sugar, a little salt, and milk enough to fill the dish
within two inches of the top. Bake in a slow oven
four or five hours. Let stand until cold, and it will
slip out whole. Serve with hot sauce.
Queen's Pudding
1 Pint of Bread
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Butter
3 Eggs
1 Lemon
Soak one pint of bread in a quart of milk till
soft. Beat together the yolks of the eggs, sugar,
butter, and the juice and rind of half a lemon. Stir
all together and bake until it rises, about an hour
and a half. When nearly cold, spread the top with
jelly, and then the white of the eggs, beaten stiff.
Brown in the oven. To be eaten cold.
Poor Man's Rice Pudding
1 Quart of Milk
1 Piece of Butter, size of
1 Small Cupful of Sugar
a Hickory Nut
1/2 Cupful of Washed
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Rice (scant)
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Bake slowly for three hours; the success lies in
the baking. If baked right it will be creamy on top.
74
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Suet Pudding
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Milk
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Chopped Suet 1 Teaspoonful of Clove
1 Cupful of Raisins
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
3 Cupfuls of Flour
mon
1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg
Beat the soda into the molasses, add milk, salt
and spices. Cover the raisins and suet with some of
the flour, stir all together. Steam three hours in a
tin pail, set in a kettle of boiling water. Serve hot
with cold sauce, made of one cupful of sugar and
one-third cupful of butter, creamed together. Grate
a little nutmeg over the top.
Tapioca Cream
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Corn-
5 Tablespoonfuls of
starch
Tapioca
2/3 Cupful of Sugar
3 Eggs
Pinch of Salt
Soak the tapioca in a little warm water for an
hour. Put the milk on the stove in a sauce pan.
Add the sugar and salt to the beaten yolks of the
eggs. When the milk is scalded put in the soaked
tapioca and when boiling, stir in the eggs. Cook
a few minutes and remove from fire. Stir in the
beaten whites and flavor. To be eaten cold.
SOUPS
Bean Porridge
Pick over and wash two-thirds of a cupful of
white beans. Put on the back of the stove in cold
water. Let these boil slowly, while the dinner is
cooking. When the boiled dinner has been taken
up, put these beans into the liquor in which the
dinner was cooked. Boil one hour. Wet three
tablespoonfuls of flour with water, and stir in while
boiling, to thicken. Serve hot, adding a little milk,
if you like.
Connecticut Clam Chowder
3 or 4 Slices of Salt Pork 1 Teaspoonful of Parsley
3 Potatoes
25 Soft-shelled Clams
1/2 Onion
1 Quart of Water
1 Cupful of Tomatoes
Salt and Pepper
3 Crackers
1 Cupful of Milk
Cut three or four slices of salt pork and fry in the
bottom of a kettle. Add the potatoes cut into dice,
onion shaved, a cupful of stewed tomatoes, rolled
ship crackers, minced parsley, soft-shelled clams,
and boiling water. Add salt and pepper to taste and
cook till the potatoes are tender. A little hot milk
may be added just before taking up.
78
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
79
Massachusetts Clam Chowder
3 Quarts of Clams
8 Boston Crackers
6 Medium-sized Potatoes 4 Slices of Salt Pork
1 Small Onion
Wash the clams clean, put them on the stove
to cook, with one pint of cold water. Boil until
the shells burst open. Remove from the stove,
pour the clam liquor into an earthen dish and
set away to settle. When the clams have cooled
a little, pick them from the shells, remove the
night-caps, cut off the head, to the shoulders,
washing each clam. Cut three or four slices of
fat salt pork and fry in the bottom of a kettle,
with half an onion. Skim these from the fat, pour
in the clam liquor, add a little hot water. When
this boils, add the raw potatoes, which have been
pared and sliced thin, and cook until tender. Split
the crackers open and soak till soft in milk or water.
Add these and the clams to the potatoes. Cook
ten minutes, then add a quart of milk and salt, if
needed. Do not let it boil after adding the milk.
Serve hot. This is very delicious.
New England Fish Chowder
4 Slices of Fat Salt Pork 2 or 3 Pounds of Fresh
6 or 8 Potatoes
Haddock or Codfish
1 Small Onion
8 Boston Crackers
Fry the salt pork, with the onion, in the bot-
80
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
tom of a kettle, skim from the fat, and pour in
about a quart of water. Slice the potatoes thin,
after they have been washed and pared. Make
alternate layers of fish and potatoes, seasoning
each layer with pepper and salt. Cook until both are
tender. Then put in the split crackers, which have
been soaked in milk or water, as for clam chowder.
Cook for ten minutes. Pour in a quart of milk, add a
small piece of butter and serve hot.
Lamb Broth
2
Pounds of Fore-Quarter 1 Tablespoonful of Salt
of Lamb
1 Teaspoonful of Sage
2/3 Cupful of Rice
Leaves
Put the lamb into a kettle, cover with cold water,
add the salt and cook three hours. As the water
boils away, add more. Wash the rice, allowing three-
fourths of an hour to cook; put in the sage, about
fifteen minutes before serving, and thicken with two
tablespoonfuls of flour, wet in two-thirds of a cupful
of water. The sage may be left out if preferred.
A Good Oyster Stew
25 Oysters
Butter
1 Teaspoonful of Flour
Salt
1 Quart of Milk
Take twenty-five oysters, with their liquor and
put these into an agate dish on the stove with salt to
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
81
taste, in a pint of cold water. Boil five minutes.
Stir into this one heaping teaspoonful of flour, which
has been wet with two tablespoonfuls of cold water.
Add one quart of milk. Let it come to a boil, but
be sure not to have it boil. Remove from the fire,
and add a piece of butter the size of an egg. This is
sufficient for eight people.
Potato Soup
4 Potatoes
Piece of Butter size of an
3 Pints of Milk
Egg
Small piece of Onion
Take four large potatoes, boil until done and
mash smooth, adding butter and salt to taste.
Heat the milk in a double boiler, cook the onion in
it a few minutes and then remove. Pour the milk
slowly on the potato, strain, heat and serve im-
mediately. Thicken with one tablespoonful of flour.
VEGETABLES
Green Corn Fritters
2 Cupfuls of Corn, grated 1/2 Cupful of Flour
from the cob
1 Level Teaspoonful of
2 Eggs
Cream of Tartar
A Little Salt
1/2 Level Teaspoonful of
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Soda
Beat the eggs, then add the milk and salt. Stir
the corn into the dry flour, wetting with the milk
and eggs, then fry in hot lard.
Delicious Stuffed Baked Potatoes
Bake six potatoes, or enough for family. When
done, set away to cool slightly. Cut off a small
piece, scoop out the inside, mash, add butter, salt,
and milk, also tiny bits of parsley, if liked. Fill the
shells with this mixture, put back in the oven and
bake until brown.
Creamed Potatoes
4 or 5 Baked Potatoes
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Pint of Milk
Butter, the size of a Wal-
nut
Pare the potatoes and cut into small pieces. Put
them on the stove, in an agate dish, salt and cover
82
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
83
with milk. Let them cook fifteen or twenty minutes,
then thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, stirred
with half a cupful of water; put in the butter and
serve hot.
Scalloped Potatoes
Butter a baking-dish, pare and slice potatoes
in small pieces. Put into the dish with salt, pepper
and a little butter. Fill the dish with milk, sprinkle
over the top cracker or bread crumbs, and cheese, if
you like it. Bake in the oven for an hour and a half
or two hours.
Baked Tomatoes
6 Tomatoes
A few Stalks of Celery
2 Cupfuls of Bread Crumbs
Hearts
Small piece of Onion
Salt and Pepper to taste
Cut off a small piece of each tomato and scoop
out the inside. Mix this with two cupfuls, or the
same amount of bread crumbs, the chopped onion,
salt and pepper. Then fill the tomatoes with this
mixture, putting small pieces of butter over the top.
Place these in a pan in which is a very little water, to
prevent sticking, and bake in a hot oven from twenty
minutes to half an hour.
Fried Tomatoes
Pare and slice (not very thin), dip into flour and
fry on a griddle in hot fat.
106
CORN BREAD
1/2 cup corn-meal
1/2 cake compressed yeast,
1 3/4 cups water
softened in 1/3 cup warm
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
water
2 tablespoons sugar
2 3/4 to 3 cups flour (enough
1 tablespoon shortening
to make medium dough)
Cook the corn-meal in the water ten minutes; add salt, sugar
and fat to the mush. Cool until lukewarm, stirring occasionally
to prevent a film. When cool add the yeast and beat well.
Add the flour and mix well. Knead, using as little flour on
the board as possible. Put into a greased bowl, let rise until
it almost doubles in bulk. Work it down and let it rise again.
Mold it into loaves, place in pan and let rise until it has almost
doubled in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven (400° to 350° F.).
RAISIN BREAD
2 cups scalded milk
1/2 to 1 yeast cake softened in
2 tablespoons shortening
1/2 cup warm water
1/4 cup molasses
White flour to make a medium
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
dough
3/4 cup raisins, chopped and floured
Follow general directions for making bread, either sponge
method (page 100) or straight dough method (page 100). Add
raisins after the bread is kneaded.
GRAHAM BREAD
2 cups scalded milk
1/2 to 1 yeast cake softened in
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 cup warm water
2 tablespoons molasses or
1 cup wheat flour
2 tablespoons sugar
About 5 cups graham flour
Follow general directions for making bread, adding only the
white flour at first. Let the mass stand in a warm place until
light. Stir in graham flour to make a stiff batter. Pour into
a
baking-dish and when it has almost doubled in bulk bake for
one hour in a moderate oven (400° to 350° F.). If a less moist
bread is desired, enough flour, part white and part graham,
may be used to make a dough and the bread may be made by
the straight dough method (page 100).
I26
BAKING POWDER BISCUIT PIE CRUST-This is sometimes used
to top a meat pie or a deep dish fruit pie where a rich crust is
not desired. Follow directions for baking-powder biscuit, roll-
ing the crust to about one-fourth inch thick, or drop it as for
emergency biscuit, leaving a small opening in the middle for
the escape of steam.
PECAN ROLLS-Spread biscuit dough with shortening, brown
sugar and pecans. Roll and cut into 1-inch slices. Bake in skillet,
muffin tins or on cookie sheet with sugar-nut mixture instead of
fruit as for Upside-Down Cakes. See page 476.
DATE BISCUITS
Add one-half cup dates, stoned and quartered, to the recipe
for baking-powder biscuits.
SODA BISCUIT
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons shortening
1 cup thick sour milk
Follow directions for baking-powder biscuit. The dough
should be stiffer than for baking-powder biscuit.
SCONES
2 cups flour
4 tablespoons shortening
4 teaspoons baking-powder
2/3 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
Mix and sift the flour, baking-powder and salt, and chop in
the shortening. Add sufficient milk to make a soft dough.
Toss on a floured board and roll into a sheet one-half inch thick.
Shape with a small round cookie-cutter. Bake on a griddle,
turning so that both sides are cooked to a delicate brown. Lay
a napkin on a plate, arrange the scones on it and fold the corners
of the napkin over them. Split and butter while hot.
SALLY LUNN
1/2 cup shortening
2 cups flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1 egg
Cream the shortening with the sugar. Mix and sift together
the flour and baking-powder and add to the creamed mixture,
QUICK BREADS
127
alternating with the milk. Add the beaten egg and bake in a
loaf or in muffin-pans, in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
When fresh huckleberries are in season, one cup stirred in
just before baking will be an agreeable addition.
SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT
2 cups flour
1/3 cup shortening
1 teaspoon salt
Milk and water
Sift the flour with the salt. With the tips of fingers work
in shortening and moisten to a stiff dough with equal quantities
of milk and water mixed. Place on floured board and beat
with rolling-pin for at least one-half hour, folding the dough
every few minutes. Roll to one-third inch thick, shape with
a biscuit-cutter about two inches in diameter, prick with fork
and place on greased baking-sheet or inverted dripping-pan.
Bake twenty minutes in hot oven (400°-425° F.). They
should be light, of even grain, and should crack at the edges
like crackers.
SPOON CORN BREAD
2 cups water
1 tablespoon shortening
1 cup white corn-meal
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
2 eggs
Mix the water and corn-meal and bring slowly to the boil-
ing-point. Cook five minutes. Add the milk, shortening, salt
and well-beaten eggs. Beat thoroughly and bake in a well-
greased pan for twenty-five minutes at 400° F. Serve from the
same dish with a spoon.
SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD
1/4 cup of fat and cracklings
1/2 teaspoon salt
from pork, beef, or chicken
1 cup corn-meal
fat
2 eggs
3 cups boiling water
Add fat and cracklings to the water, and when boiling
sprinkle in the salt and corn-meal, stirring constantly. Cook
in a double boiler one hour, cool, and add the well-beaten eggs.
Turn into a greased baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven
(350° F.) three-fourths of an hour.
I28
NORTHERN JOHNNY CAKE
2 cups corn-meal
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 cups sour milk
2 eggs
2 tablespoons shortening
1 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons sugar, white or
1 tablespoon cold water
brown
Cook together the meal, milk, shortening, sugar and salt in
a double boiler for about twenty minutes. Allow the mixture
to cool, then add the well-beaten eggs and the soda dissolved
in the water. Bake in a shallow iron or granite pan for about
thirty minutes at 400° F.
In case there is not time to cook and cool the meal, the fol-
lowing method of mixing may be used. Mix and sift together
the meal, sugar, salt and soda, add the sour milk gradually, then
the well-beaten eggs and the melted fat. Bread made by this
method does not have as good texture as that made by the first
method.
NEW ENGLAND CORN CAKE
1 cup corn-meal
1 egg
1 cup white flour
1 cup milk
3 teaspoons baking-powder
2 tablespoons melted short-
2 tablespoons sirup
ening
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the egg light, add
the milk, shortening and sirup. Stir into the dry mixture and
beat well. Pour into a well-greased, shallow pan and bake
at 400° F. twenty-five to thirty minutes.
SOUTHERN CORN BREAD
1 cup sour milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon soda dissolved in
1 1/2 cups corn-meal
1 teaspoon water
White of one egg beaten stiff
1 egg-yolk
and added last
Mix in the order given and bake in muffin-tins or in a shallow
pan in a moderate to hot oven (400°-425° F.) for twenty
minutes.
To be real Southern corn-bread, this should be made of white
corn-meal made from the whole grain.
QUICK BREADS
I29
HONEY SANDWICH BREAD
1/2 cup bran
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup graham flour
1 cup milk
1 cup white flour
1/3 cup honey
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 egg
Mix and sift the dry ingredients together. Add the nuts,
mix, and add milk, honey and beaten egg. Beat thoroughly.
Pour into a greased oblong bread-pan and bake one hour at
400° F.
BOSTON BROWN BREAD
1 cup corn-meal
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup rye flour
3/4 cup molasses
1 cup graham flour
2 cups sour milk or
3/4 tablespoon soda
1 3/4 cups sweet milk
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Mix the molasses and milk
and add to the dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly and turn into
well-greased molds, filling each mold about two-thirds full.
Cover and steam three hours. Remove the covers and bake the
bread (375° F.) long enough to dry it off.
RAISIN BREAD
2 cups corn-meal
1 1/2 cups sour milk
1 cup Graham flour
1 egg
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon soda
3 tablespoons baking-powder
1 cup raisins
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the raisins and toss
lightly together. Add the other ingredients. Mix thoroughly
and steam for two and three-quarters hours.
WHOLE WHEAT SANDWICH
4 cups whole-wheat flour
8 teaspoons baking-powder
1/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup seedless raisins
1 egg
1/2 cup chopped nuts
2 cups milk
2 teaspoons salt
Mix the dry ingredients, add the nuts and raisins, add the
milk and egg and beat thoroughly. Turn into a greased pan.
Let the dough rise for fifteen minutes. Bake one hour in
a
moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
I30
DATE BRAN BREAD
2 cups bran
2/3 cup dates cut in small
2 cups white flour
pieces
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups milk
3 tablespoons sugar
1 egg
4 teaspoons baking-powder
2 tablespoons melted short-
ening
Sift the dry ingredients together, add the dates, toss lightly
together and add the milk. Mix well and add beaten egg and
melted fat. Turn into a greased pan or mold and cover with
oiled paper. Steam for three hours.
QUICK NUT BREAD
2 cups bread flour
1 whole egg
1/2 cup sugar
Yolk 1 egg
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup finely chopped walnut
5 tablespoons shortening
or other meats
Mix and sift flour, sugar, baking-powder and salt. Work in
shortening as for biscuit; then add egg and egg-yolk well-
beaten, milk and chopped nut meats. Beat thoroughly and turn
into a buttered bread pan. Let stand twenty minutes; then
bake at 400° F. forty to fifty minutes. This is a delicious bread
for sandwiches.
PRUNE RYE BREAD
2 cups sifted rye flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 cups sifted wheat flour
1 egg, slightly beaten
6 teaspoons baking powder
1 3/4 cups milk
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 cup cooked prunes,
chopped
Sift together dry ingredients. Combine egg and milk, and
add to flour mixture, stirring only until well mixed; stir in
prunes. Turn into greased loaf pans and bake in moderate oven
(350° F.) about 1 hour. Yield: 2 loaves, 6x3 inches, or 1
sandwich loaf, 11x3x3 inches.
SANDWICHES
I49
PIMIENTO AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES
3/4 cup pimiento
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Butter
1/4 cup anchovy paste
1/2 teaspoon tabasco sauce
Salt
Rub pimientos to a paste with creamed butter and season
with tabasco sauce, lemon-juice, anchovy paste and salt. Spread
between thin buttered slices of whole-wheat bread.
RADISH AND HAM SANDWICHES
1/2 cup potted ham
1/2 cup sliced radishes
1/4 to 1/2 cup mayonnaise
Peel and slice radishes, dip them in rich, thick mayonnaise,
and lay on thin slices of bread covered with potted ham.
TOMATO AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES
4 tomatoes
Lettuce leaves
1/4 to 1/2 cup mayonnaise
Spread thin slices of buttered bread with mayonnaise, cover
with a crisp lettuce leaf and spread with peeled, chilled toma-
toes sliced thin. Cover with a second slice of bread, and cut
into desired shape. Crisp bacon is a pleasing addition.
WATERCRESS SANDWICHES
1 1/4 cups cress
2 tablespoons lemon-juice or
Paprika
1/4 cup mayonnaise
Sprinkle cress with salt, paprika, and lemon-juice, or mix
with mayonnaise. Lay between slices of brown bread.
THE PIE CANAPÉ
An attractive canapé plate may be made by cutting twice
horizontally, through a round loaf of rye bread. The slice
should be 3/4 inch thick and free of crust. Spread with soft-
ened butter and mayonnaise dressing. Mark in circles as guides
with increasingly larger articles-a small cookie cutter at
center, a large cutter, a bowl, a small plate, and decorate in
180
milk, flour, and butter. Rub the cooked fish through a sieve.
Combine the fish and sauce. Season and serve.
PUREE OF PEAS AND TOMATOES
1/2 pound dried yellow split
1 or 2 celery tops
peas
Salt and pepper
1 pint tomatoes
1 tablespoon flour
1 quart water
1 tablespoon butter
1 onion
Soak peas over night in water enough to cover them three or
four inches. Drain, and put into a saucepan with the tomatoes,
water, sliced onion, and celery tops. Cook until the peas are
tender. Mash through a sieve. Season with salt and pepper.
Bind with a roux made of the flour and butter, and serve,
garnished with a thin slice of tomato or lemon and a few
canned peas if available. Serve with bread croutons.
SPLIT PEA OR LIMA BEAN PUREE
1 cup split peas or dried lima
2 tablespoons butter or
beans
other fat
2 quarts water
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon flour
Celery salt
1 teaspoon onion-juice
Soak peas or beans all night, then put them over the fire with
water and bring to a boil. Cook slowly, until soft. Rub
through a sieve, heat, and thicken with roux of flour and
fat. Season with salt, pepper, celery salt, and onion-juice.
Stir or beat until smooth and serve with croutons.
Cold Fruit Purées
In hot weather, cold fruit purées are sometimes preferred to
hot soups. They are always served in cups, usually of glass,
and with a few pieces of the fruit floating on the surface. They
should be thoroughly chilled. The trays of the mechanical
refrigerator are excellent for this purpose. These fruit purées
are really as closely related to the appetizers as to the soups.
SOUPS
I8I
CHERRY PUREE
Juice from 1 quart of tart
2 teaspoons arrowroot
cherries, freshly stewed or
Grated rind of 1 lemon
canned
Heat the juice from the cherries. Add arrowroot moistened
with cold water, stirring the mixture rapidly to prevent the
forming of lumps. Flavor with the grated lemon-rind. Serve
very cold, with a whole cherry floating on each portion.
ORANGE PUREE
2 cups orange-juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon corn-starch
1 teaspoon grated orange-
2 tablespoons cold water
rind
Place orange-juice in saucepan and when it is thoroughly
heated add the corn-starch mixed with the cold water. Cook
slowly until clear. Add sugar and grated orange-rind. Serve
ice-cold in glass sherbet cups.
RASPBERRY PUREE
1/2 cup granulated tapioca
2 cups raspberries
6 cups water
Sugar
1/2 cup currant-juice
Boil tapioca in water and currant-juice. When tapioca is
transparent, add raspberries and sugar to taste. Set aside to
cool. Serve ice-cold in sherbet-glasses.
Bisques
BISQUE OF CLAMS
24 clams in the shell
2 cups water
2 cups rich milk or white
1 tablespoon chopped celery
stock or part of each
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1 tablespoon butter
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon flour
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Scrub the
clams thoroughly, then pack into pot with a tight-fitting lid,
using 1/2 cup water to steam. When all have popped open,
182
remove, cool in their own liquor. Detach clams from shells, put
through food chopper and add strained liquor. Add water,
chopped celery and parsley and cook ten minutes. Press through
a sieve and add to the white sauce. Season, beat with an egg-
beater, and serve.
BISQUE OF LOBSTER
1 medium-sized lobster
1 cup cold water
1 quart milk
Red pepper
4 tablespoons butter
Salt and pepper
4 tablespoons flour
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Re-
move meat from freshly boiled lobster. Reserve the coral and
the green fat. Put the cold water into a kettle and add the
broken claws and shell and the finely chopped tail meat. Bring
to the simmering-point and simmer for twenty minutes. Drain,
and stir into the white sauce. Add the remainder of the lobster
meat, cut in dice. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Just
before serving, add the coral mashed to a paste with the green
fat. Mix thoroughly, reheat, and serve with croutons.
BISQUE OF OYSTERS
1 pint oysters
1 slice onion, chopped fine
2 cups milk
1 stalk celery, diced
1 cup stale bread-crumbs
1 stalk parsley, chopped fine
1 tablespoon flour
1 bay-leaf
1 tablespoon butter
Salt and pepper
2 cups water
Scald the milk, add the bread-crumbs and cook in a double
boiler for twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve. Make a
white sauce of the milk and crumb mixture and the flour and
butter. Chop the oysters, put them in a saucepan with their
own liquor, the water and the chopped vegetables and herbs.
Simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Rub through a fine
sieve and combine with the white sauce mixture. More milk
or cream may be added if the bisque is very thick. Season and
serve.
SOUPS
183
MOCK BISQUE OR TOMATO BISQUE SOUP
2 cups raw or canned toma-
Bit of bay-leaf
toes
3/4 cup stale bread crumbs
2 teaspoons sugar
4 cups milk
1/3 teaspoon soda
1/2 tablespoon salt
1/2 onion stuck with 6 cloves
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Sprig of parsley
1/3 cup butter
Soald milk with bread crumbs, onion, parsley, and bay leaf.
Remove seasonings and rub through a sieve. Cook tomatoes
with sugar fifteen minutes, add soda and rub through a sieve.
Reheat bread and milk to boiling-point, add tomatoes, and pour
at once into tureen over butter, salt, and pepper. Serve with
croutons or crisp crackers.
Chowders
CLAM CHOWDER
50 clams
1/2 teaspoon thyme
4 ounces salt pork
3 potatoes
1 medium-sized onion
1 pint milk
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 pilot biscuit
Put clams, with their own liquor, into a granite-ware sauce-
pan, and when they have come to a boil skim out the clams and
return liquid to the fire. Cut the salt pork into thin slices,
chop the onion, and sauté the two together until brown. Stir
in flour, and when mixture is bubbling slowly, add the clam
liquor. Season with salt, white pepper, and thyme. Add po-
tatoes which have been cut into small cubes, and cook this
mixture until the potatoes are tender. Just before serving, add
milk, clams cut into pieces, and three large pilot biscuit or a
larger number of hard water-crackers, as preferred. If liked
thicker, blend one tablespoon of butter or other fat with the
same of flour, and add gradually.
To make Rhode Island clam chowder, add tomatoes, either
canned or fresh.
184
CORN CHOWDER
2 slices fat salt pork
2 cups boiling water
1 onion
1 cup cooked corn, fresh
3 cups diced boiled potatoes
or canned
Salt and pepper
4 cups hot milk
Cut the pork into small pieces and try it out. In this cook
the sliced onion. Strain the fat into another receptacle, and put
the potatoes into the strained fat. Add boiling water, corn
which has been cooked till tender, and hot milk. Season with
salt and white pepper, bring to the boiling-point, and serve with
a cracker on each soup-plate.
FISH CHOWDER
1/4 pound fat salt pork, sliced
3 cups boiling water
2 cups raw fish, cut in dice
1 pint milk
6 small potatoes, sliced
3 pilot biscuit
2 onions, chopped fine
Fry salt pork in a deep kettle. When crisp remove pieces of
pork and put fish, potatoes and onions in kettle. Cover with
the boiling water. Simmer one-half hour, or until the potato
is tender. Add the milk and cook five minutes longer. Season
with salt and pepper. Just before serving, add the pilot biscuit.
OYSTER CHOWDER
1 quart oysters
2 tablespoons butter or
6 potatoes
other fat
1 onion
1 tablespoon flour
1 cup water
Salt and pepper
3 cups milk
3 pilot biscuit
Drain the oysters, and remove any particles of shell. Strain
the liquor through a fine wire sieve. Slice the potatoes and
onion thin and boil them in the oyster liquor and water until
tender but not mushy. Make a white sauce with the fat, flour,
and milk, put the oysters into it, and cook two minutes. Com-
bine white sauce with potatoes and onion and the liquor in
which they have been cooked. Season to taste with salt and
pepper. Place the pilot biscuit in the hot tureen. Pour the
chowder over them, and serve.
282
STEAMED WHOLE SPRING CHICKEN
1 chicken
Salt and pepper
1 cup oysters
1/2 cup cream or milk
1 tablespoon fat
3 hard-cooked eggs
1 tablespoon flour
Minced herbs
Prepare a full-grown Spring chicken as for roasting, season
inside and out with salt and pepper, stuff with whole, raw
oysters and place it in a steamer with a close-fitting cover, and
steam until the chicken is done, then place the chicken on a
warm dish and make a gravy as follows: Put the fat into
a
saucepan with the minced herbs and flour and stir until the
mixture bubbles; add the liquor in the kettle below the steamer,
the cream or milk, and cook, stirring constantly, until the mix-
ture boils. Add the eggs, chopped fine, let the whole boil, pour
it over the chicken and serve at once.
CHICKEN POT-PIE
1 chicken
1 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons flour
1 cup milk
Salt and pepper
Clean, singe and cut up the chicken, place it in a pot and
nearly cover with water. Cover the pot and simmer gently.
An old fowl will require at least three or four hours' slow cook-
ing, but a year-old chicken should be done in one and one-
half hours. Remove the cover during the last half-hour of
cooking, to reduce the gravy to about one and one-half pints
when done.
Three-fourths of an hour before time to serve, make Dump-
lings No. 2 (see Index). When the dumplings are ready to
serve, add salt and pepper to the chicken and make the gravy
by adding to the liquor in the kettle three tablespoons of flour
stirred to a paste in one cup of milk. Skim out the chicken,
lay it on a platter, place the dumplings on the top and pour
over them the gravy.*
PRESSED CHICKEN
1 chicken
1 tablespoon gelatin to each
Salt and pepper
pint broth
Clean, singe and cut up a chicken. Place it in a kettle with
a little water, cover closely and simmer until the meat will fall
POULTRY AND GAME
283
from the bones. Lift the pieces from the kettle with a skimmer
and scrape all the meat from the bones, separating the white
meat from the dark and taking out the pieces of skin. Season
with salt and pepper.
Soften gelatin in two tablespoons of water for each tablespoon
of gelatin and add to the boiling chicken broth. Place the meat
in the dish it is to be pressed in, laying the white and dark in
alternate layers, and adding from time to time a little of the
broth to moisten all well. When all the meat is in the dish,
pour over it enough of the broth to cover it; lay a plate on top
of it; place a heavy weight upon the plate and set away in a
cool place. This makes an attractive dish for luncheon, sliced
and garnished with parsley.
WHITE
FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN
1 chicken
1 egg-yolk
2 tablespoons fat
Salt and pepper
2 cups chicken stock
Herbs
2 tablespoons flour
Salt pork
1 cup milk or cream
Rice or dumplings
Singe, clean and cup up the chicken. Brown in a pan with
the fat. Cover with boiling water, add salt, pepper, herbs and
a few slices of salt pork. Simmer until tender (about an hour),
strain and thicken one pint of the liquor with the flour mixed
to a smooth paste with a little cold water; add the milk or
cream beaten with the yolk of the egg. Heat again until
slightly thickened, pour over the chicken and serve with rice
or dumplings (see Index for recipe).
BROWN
1 chicken
Salt and pepper
2 or 3 small slices salt pork
1
teaspoon onion-juice, if
2 tablespoons flour
desired
1 pint boiling water
Cut in pieces as directed for white fricassee. Place salt pork
in a frying-pan, and when hot put in the chicken, leaving
plenty of room to turn the meat; cook until each piece is a
rich brown. Remove the chicken and keep it warm. Add the
flour to the fat in the pan, stir well and when it has cooked two
minutes, add the boiling water. When the gravy is smooth
and boiling, replace the chicken, season with salt and pepper,
284
cover the pan, and simmer gently until the chicken is tender,
then add a teaspoon of onion-juice, if desired, and serve at
once. The gravy will be thick enough, and if the pan has a
tight cover, it will not be diminished, even after long cooking.
CHICKEN PIE
1 chicken
Salt and pepper
Pie paste
Flour
Milk
Clean, singe and cut up chicken as for fricassee. Place in a
kettle and add enough hot water to cover. Put the cover on
the kettle, and simmer slowly until the chicken is tender, add-
ing a little more water if needed. Make a gravy of the stock,
using two tablespoons flour for each cup of stock. Use for the
crust puff paste, or a good pie paste, rolled a little thicker
than for fruit pies. Line the sides of a deep baking-dish with
crust; invert in the middle of the dish a small cup or ramekin;
put in part of the chicken and season with salt and pepper,
then add the rest of the chicken, and season the same way.
Put in the dish two cups or more of the gravy made from
broth in which the chicken was cooked and cover the top with
crust. The cup or ramekin will hold the crust up and will pre-
vent evaporation. Most chicken pie is too dry; therefore, use
a generous amount of the broth. Bake in a hot oven (450° F.)
until crust is done (one-half hour). When serving, after cut-
ting the first slice, carefully slip the knife under the ramekin
and release the gravy which is held there by suction. Additional
gravy should be served in a gravy-dish.
CURRY OF CHICKEN
1 chicken (1 1/2 or 2 pounds)
2 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon to 2 tablespoons
2 onions
curry-powder
1 egg-yolk
1 tablespoon flour
Cut up the chicken as for fricassee, put in a saucepan with
sufficient water to cover it, and simmer until tender, keeping
the pan closely covered. Remove from the fire, take the chicken
out and pour the liquor into a bowl. Put the onions into the
saucepan with the fat and sauté until brown, then skim them
out and put in the chicken; fry for three or four minutes, then
POULTRY AND GAME
285
sprinkle over it the curry-powder. Next pour in the chicken
liquor, stew five minutes longer and stir in the flour mixed
until smooth with a little cold water. Stir the mixture until
it thickens; add the beaten yolk of egg, adding a little of the
hot mixture to the egg first. Serve with a border of hot boiled
rice.
SAVORY CHICKEN
1/4 cup fat
1 1/2 cups strained tomatoes
1 tablespoon chopped onion
Salt, pepper and paprika
1 chopped carrot
1 chicken
1 slice turnip
Salt-pork fat
1/4 cup flour
1 cup button mushrooms
1 cup water
2 tablespoons chopped olives
Make a savory sauce by melting the fat and cooking in it
chopped onion, carrot and turnip cut in small pieces. Stir in
flour and add gradually boiling water and tomato, previously
stewed and strained. Season with salt, pepper and paprika.
Cut up a chicken, dredge with flour, and sauté in salt-pork
fat. Remove from the pan, place in a saucepan and cover
with the savory sauce. Cook until the chicken is tender. At
the last moment, add the mushrooms and chopped olives. Ar-
range the pieces of chicken in the center of the platter and pour
the sauce around them, garnishing with triangles of toast and
stuffed olives.
SCALLOPED CHICKEN
2 cups cooked chicken meat
2 tablespoons flour
1 pint broth in which chicken
Salt and pepper
was cooked
Bread-crumbs
Fat
2 cups sliced, cooked potatoes
Cut the cooked chicken meat into dice. Thicken the broth
with a paste made of the flour and two tablespoons of fat and
season with salt and pepper. Fill a pudding-dish with alternate
layers of bread-crumbs, chicken and potatoes. Cover the top
with crumbs. Pour in the gravy and add a few bits of butter
or other fat and bake fifteen to thirty minutes in a moderate
oven (350°-400° F.).
286
CREAMED CHICKEN
2 cups cooked chicken
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons fat
1 tablespoon parsley
2 tablespoons flour
1 egg-yolk
1 cup milk or cream
Make a white sauce of the fat, flour and milk. Season with
salt and pepper. Add the parsley and chicken and cook until
the sauce is thoroughly hot again. Beat the egg-yolk, adding
two tablespoons of milk, and pour into the mixture. Cook
two minutes, stirring constantly, and serve in a border of riced
potatoes or in croustades.
Creamed chicken may be varied in a number of ways: by
substituting mushrooms or chopped cooked eggs for part of
the chicken or by adding chopped pimientos and olives.
Capons
Capons are large, plump young roosters, especially fattened
for the table. They are prepared for cooking in the same way
as chickens. For stuffing, choose a delicate flavoring such as
oysters or chestnuts. Mushrooms or truffles are especially good
with capon.
Turkeys
ROAST TURKEY
Dress as directed for roast chicken and roast in an uncovered
roaster in a slow oven (300° F.) allowing 15 to 25 minutes per
pound, depending upon age and size of bird. The larger birds
require less time per pound than the small birds. Baste the bird
at half hour intervals. Serve with giblet gravy.
BRAISED TURKEY
1 turkey
1/2 cup onion
Stuffing
1/2 cup turnip
1/2 pound salt pork
4 cups water or stock
1/2 cup chopped celery
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup chopped carrots
This is a very satisfactory way of cooking an old turkey that
is unfit for roasting. Stuff the body and breast with any de-
POULTRY AND GAME
287
sired stuffing, and truss. Spread thin slices of salt pork over
the breast and legs, and cover the turkey with a strong sheet
of oiled paper, fastening the paper on by passing a string
around the body. In a double roasting-pan large enough to
hold the turkey, spread sliced salt pork and the chopped vege-
tables. Lay the turkey on this mixture, with the breast up,
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover the pan tightly, and place
in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.). Allow twenty-five min-
utes for each pound.
At the end of thirty minutes, add water or stock. During
the last half-hour take the cover from the pan, remove the paper
and pork from the turkey. This permits the meat to brown
lightly. Serve with mushroom sauce, or with the gravy in the
pan, strained and thickened.
FILLETS OF TURKEY WITH RICE
Breast fillets
1/2 teaspoon onion-juice
Egg and crumbs
Salt and pepper
1 cup white stock
2 teaspoons butter
1 cup rice
1 tablespoon grated cheese
6 tablespoons oil
Skin the breast of a plump turkey, and slice. The slices
should be nearly half an inch thick, and as nearly uniform in
size as possible. Dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs, again in the
egg, and once more in the crumbs. Set in the refrigerator. Put
the white stock into a saucepan; add rice, onion-juice and
one-half teaspoon salt; and simmer slowly until the liquid is
absorbed.
When the rice is tender, add butter and grated cheese, and
season with salt and pepper. Cover and let it stand at the
side of the fire until the fillets are ready. Heat salad-oil or
cooking fat slowly in a frying-pan to 375°-390° F., and cook
the fillets to a nice brown. Mound the rice in the center of a
hot dish and arrange the fillets about it.
BROILED YOUNG TURKEY
Young turkeys may be broiled or panned, like chickens. A
young turkey is easily distinguished by its smooth, black legs
and white skin.
288
TURKEY CURRY
6 tablespoons fat
3 tablespoons flour
1/3 cup onion, finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 large apple, peeled, diced
1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons curry
1 large can mushrooms or
powder
1 pound fresh mushrooms
1 1/2 cups turkey stock and top
3 cups turkey, diced
milk, or cream
Cook onion, apple, mushrooms, and turkey in the fat until
onion and apple begin to be transparent: 10 to 15 minutes. If
fresh mushrooms are used, sauté several minutes before adding
to other ingredients. Remove from heat, add salt, flour, and
curry powder and stir thoroughly. Add liquid, and cook until
thickened throughout. Set over hot water, cover and cook 15
minutes longer to blend the flavors. Taste and add more
seasoning if desired. Serve with hot boiled rice. Little or no
salt is added in cooking rice.
Goose
ROAST GOOSE WITH POTATO STUFFING
1 goose (about 8 pounds)
Salt and pepper
Potato stuffing
Flour
Salt pork if goose is not fat
Select a goose that is about four months old. An old goose
is better braised than roasted. Singe the goose, wash it carefully
in hot water, and wipe it dry on the outside; then draw it and
clean it thoroughly inside. Flatten the breast-bone by striking
it with a rolling-pin. Partly fill the cavity with potato stuf-
fing, stitch up the openings and truss the goose. If it is not
fat, lay thin slices of pork upon the breast, but if the goose has
considerable fat, omit the pork. Bake in a hot oven (500° F.)
for forty-five minutes. Remove it from the oven, pour out
all the fat, sprinkle the bird all over with salt and pepper,
dredge with flour, and return it to the oven. Reduce the heat
but do not let it get below 350° F.
When the flour is a good brown, pour one cup of hot water
into the pan and baste the goose often, dredging it each time
POULTRY AND GAME
289
with a slight sifting of flour to absorb the fat. Allow twenty
minutes to the pound for a young goose and twenty-five for
one that is old. Remove the goose from the pan, add a cup
of hot water to the gravy and thicken it, if necessary, with
browned flour. Garnish the goose with parsley and serve with
giblet gravy.
Apple sauce is often served with roast goose.
Goslings may be roasted in the same way, allowing, however,
only fifteen minutes to the pound for cooking.
ROAST GOOSE WITH BAKED APPLE
1 eight-pound goose
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups bread-crumbs
Pinch of pepper
1 chopped onion
6 to 8 apples
2 tablespoons fat
1/4 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon sage
3 sweet potatoes
Cook the giblets until tender, chop and add to stuffing made
by mixing bread-crumbs, onion, fat, sage, salt and pepper.
After cleaning and washing the goose thoroughly, stuff, and sew
the neck and back. Roast for fifteen minutes at 500° F., then
reduce the heat to 350° F. and cook about three hours. Wash
and core six to eight apples; sprinkle with brown sugar, stuff
with mashed and seasoned sweet potato; bake until tender and
serve hot with the goose.
DEVILED GOOSE
1 goose
1 teaspoon pepper
Potato stuffing
2 tablespoons made mustard
1/4 cup vinegar
1 tablespoon salt
After cleaning the goose and wiping it well with a damp
cloth, plunge it into a kettle of boiling water, and simmer for
one hour. Take it from the kettle, drain well, and wipe it dry.
Partly fill the body and neck with potato stuffing, sew up and
truss, and roast in a moderately hot oven (350°-400° F.), al-
lowing fifteen to twenty minutes to the pound. Pour over it
a mixture of the vinegar, pepper, and made mustard, and baste
frequently. Serve with giblet gravy.
An old goose that can not be made eatable in any other way
may be cooked in this way, two hours instead of one hour
being allowed for the simmering.
310
BÉCHAMEL SAUCE
No. 1.
Use one-half cup of meat stock instead of half of the milk
in medium or thin white sauce. If an acid flavor is desired, add
one teaspoon of lemon juice to each cup of sauce.
No. 2.
1 small onion
1/4 cup chopped lean raw ham
2 tablespoons fat
4 tablespoons flour
1 pint milk
Slice the onion, place the fat in a saucepan and slightly brown
the onion and ham in it. Add the flour and, when well mixed,
the milk. Stir until it boils, then cook over hot water for ten
minutes or longer. Add seasonings, strain and use.
CHAUD-FROID SAUCE
WHITE-Soak one tablespoon gelatin in cold water and add
to one cup of hot velouté sauce. Mix well; strain, if necessary;
let cool and use to coat cold meats.
BROWN- Use a brown roux and brown stock in making the
velouté.
YELLOW-Add the beaten yolks of two eggs to white chaud-
froid sauce just before removing from the fire.
PINEAPPLE-ORANGE SAUCE
6 tablespoons sugar
1 cup orange juice
1/2 tablespoon cornstarch
Grated rind 1 orange
1 cup water
1/3 cup crushed pineapple
Combine ingredients in the order listed. Heat to boiling and
cook for 3 minutes. Serve with ham or tongue.
Brown sugar may be used in place of granulated.
Add 1/4 cup raisins and cook until they puff.
POULETTE SAUCE
1 cup velouté sauce
2 egg yolks
1 cup cream
Slowly add, with constant stirring, the velouté to the egg
yolks, beat in the cream and reheat over hot water. Beat well
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
3II
and serve at once. It is improved by adding, a little at a time,
one tablespoon butter, the juice of half a lemon, a tablespoon
of chopped parsley and a dash of nutmeg.
BUTTER SAUCE À LA CREOLE
1 cup cold water
1/2 tablespoon flour
4 1/2 tablespoons butter
Juice of 1 lemon
Make a sauce of one-half cup cold water, one-half tablespoon
butter and the flour. When the mixture boils, stir in quickly
four tablespoons butter and add, by degrees, another one-half
cup of cold water to keep the mixture from boiling. Stir in
the juice of a lemon and strain. It must be served at once and
hot. It becomes oily if kept long. One tablespoon of chopped
parsley may be added.
DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE
1/3 cup butter
1 pint boiling water
4 tablespoons flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
Make a roux of four tablespoons of the butter and all of the
flour. Gradually add the boiling water, stirring constantly
over hot water, until the sauce comes to the boiling-point.
Simmer until it is thick and smooth. When ready to serve, add
salt and the remaining butter in small bits, beating constantly.
MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE
2 cups drawn-butter sauce
2 egg-yolks
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
Add the lemon-juice and chopped parsley to the drawn-but-
ter sauce. Let it cool slightly, add the beaten yolks and season
with salt and pepper. Do not permit the sauce to boil after
the addition of the egg-yolk.
CAPER SAUCE
Follow the recipe for maître d'hôtel sauce, omitting the
parsley and adding three tablespoons capers. This is excellent
with fish.
(For another recipe for caper sauce, see Variations of White Sauce, page 309.)
312
IMITATION CAPER SAUCE
1/2 cup chopped pickles
2 cups drawn butter sauce
To the drawn butter sauce add pickles, cut into tiny cubes
of a uniform size and well drained. Boil for one minute. Serve
with fish or chops.
HOLLANDAISE SAUCE
2 egg yolks
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup butter
Dash cayenne
1 tablespoon lemon juice
Place egg yolks with 1/3 of the butter in top of a double boiler.
Keep water in bottom of boiler hot but not boiling. Stir eggs
and butter constantly; when butter melts add another portion
and as it melts and the mixture begins to thicken add remaining
butter. Keep stirring all the time. As soon as mixture is thick,
remove from heat and add seasonings. The sauce is delicious
served over vegetables. Should sauce separate, beat in 2 table-
spoons boiling water, drop by drop. Makes 1 cup sauce.
Increase lemon juice to 1 1/2 tablespoons.
WITH WATER-Cream butter, add egg yolks 1 at a time,
blending each one in thoroughly. Add remaining ingredients
and beat. Just before serving add 1/2 cup boiling water grad-
ually, beating constantly. Cook over hot water, stirring con-
stantly until thickened. Serve at once.
WITH ANCHOVY-Season sauce with anchovy paste.
WITH SHERRY-Just before serving sauce, add 2 tablespoons
sherry, drop by drop, beating constantly.
BÉARNAISE SAUCE
4 tablespoons fat
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
Yolks 4 eggs
1 teaspoon onion juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon chopped tarragon
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
Stir the fat until perfectly soft and creamy. Place the egg
yolks and the salt and pepper in the top of a double boiler and
beat light with an egg beater, then add one-third of the fat and
beat until smooth, add another third and beat again, and then
add the remainder and beat until all is perfectly smooth. Add
the vinegar and onion juice and beat again. Place over boiling
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
313
water and cook for three minutes, beating constantly with the
egg-beater. Remove from the fire, put in the chopped parsley
and tarragon and use immediately.
VICTOR HUGO SAUCE
1/2 teaspoon fine chopped
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
shallot
1 teaspoon meat extract or
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
one meat cube
1/3 cup butter, washed (p. 591)
1 tablespoon grated horse-
Yolks of two eggs
radish
Cook the shallot in the vinegar for five minutes. Wash the
butter and divide. it into thirds. Add one of the thirds to the
vinegar, with the egg-yolks, lemon-juice and meat extract.
Cook over hot water, stirring constantly. As soon as the butter
is melted, add the second piece, and then the third piece.
When the sauce thickens, add the grated horseradish.
GIBLET GRAVY
Giblets and neck of fowl
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons chicken fat
Salt and pepper
Place the giblets (liver, heart and gizzard) and the neck in
a saucepan and cover them with cold water. Simmer slowly
and when they are tender remove the flesh from the neck and
chop it fine with the giblets. Save the stock in which the giblets
and neck were cooked. Heat the fat in a small saucepan on
top of the stove and when it is hot stir in the flour. Cook two
minutes, then add one cup of the stock pouring it in gradually
so that it will not thin the gravy too much. If the gravy seems
too thick, add a little hot water. Last, put in the chopped
giblets and season to taste with salt and pepper.
BREAD SAUCE
1 cup stale bread-crumbs
1 onion
2 cups milk
3 tablespoons butter
Salt
Pepper
This sauce is generally served with small birds. It may be
served with roast chicken or duck. The crumbs must be entirely
white. Sift them through a coarse sieve, place the ones that
pass through in the milk, add the onion and place in a stew-
314
pan on the fire to cook. Cook for twelve minutes, remove the
onion and add one tablespoon of butter with salt and pepper
to taste.
BROWNED CRUMBS-Place the remaining butter on the fire
in a frying-pan, add the coarse bread-crumbs and fry them
until brown, being careful to have the fat very hot before
putting in the crumbs. Stir vigorously for two or three min-
utes, but do not allow the crumbs to burn. Serve the sauce in
a gravy-dish and sprinkle with the browned crumbs.
No. 1.
BROWN SAUCE
1 tablespoon chopped onion
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons fat
1 cup brown meat stock
Pepper
Salt
Brown the onion and fat. Add the flour and make a brown
roux (See Index). Pour in the brown stock and cook with
constant stirring until the sauce thickens. Strain to remove
the particles of onion, and season with pepper and salt. If the
roux was not sufficiently brown to make the sauce a desirable
color, a few drops of vegetable flavoring or of Worcestershire
sauce may be added. If a more highly flavored sauce is desired,
add a slice of carrot, a sprig of parsley, a little thyme and a few
peppercorns to the onion, and brown in the fat.
No. 2-In making brown sauce for a roast, the simplest way
is to use the fat and juice of the roast. Add two tablespoons
of flour to two tablespoons of the hot drippings, stir and cook
well. Then add one cup of boiling water, stir well to avoid
lumps, and season to taste with salt and pepper. If liked, add
a tablespoon or two of catchup or a flavoring of Worcester-
shire or other sauce.
MADE GRAVY
2 small onions
Butter or other fat
1 carrot
Flour
Small piece of lean beef, size
Pepper
of egg, or 1 beef cube or
Salt
1 teaspoon beef extract
Catchup
Cut up onions and carrot, place them with the lean beef or
extract in a stew-pan with the fat and brown all together. Add
enough water to cover the mixture and stir slowly until the
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
315
vegetables are cooked. Strain, thicken with flour, using two
tablespoons to each cup of liquid, and add pepper, salt and
catchup. Color brown with caramel or vegetable flavoring if
necessary.
CURRANT JELLY SAUCE
1 onion
1 stalk celery
1 tablespoon fat
1 bay-leaf
1 tablespoon flour
2 tablespoons vinegar
1/2 cup currant jelly
2 cups stock
Slice the onion and cook in the fat till it begins to color,
the, add the flour and herbs and stir until brown. Add the
vinegar and the stock and simmer twenty minutes. Strain,
skim off all the fat, put in the jelly and stir until it is melted.
This sauce is used with game.
MUSHROOM SAUCE
4 tablespoons fat
1 cup mushrooms, fresh or
4 tablespoons flour
canned
2 cups stock
Salt and pepper
Make a brown sauce of the fat, flour and stock. Add one
cup mushrooms and cook until hot. If mushrooms are over-
cooked they will become tough. Three or four minutes is
sufficient for those that have been canned and five or six min-
utes for fresh ones.
This sauce is used with any kind of roasted, broiled or braised
meat, particularly with beef.
ONION SAUCE
1/2 cup minced onion
1 1/2 cups beef stock
3 tablespoons fat
1 tablespoon minced parsley
3 tablespoons flour
Cook the onion with the fat until slightly browned. Stir in
the flour, then add the stock and parsley, stirring constantly.
Serve with beef.
316
SAUCE PIQUANTE
2 tablespoons butter or other
2 cloves
fat
1 clove garlic
2 onions
2 tablespoons flour
2 carrots
1 cup beef or veal stock
2 shallots
1/2 cup vinegar
Thyme
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon minced parsley
Melt fat, slice into it onions, carrots and shallots. Add a little
thyme, minced parsley, cloves and clove of garlic. Let this
mixture cook until the carrot is soft, then add flour. Let it
cook for five minutes more, and add beef or veal stock and
vinegar, skim, and strain through a sieve. Add salt and pepper
when boiling.
SAUCE ROBERT
6 onions
1 tablespoon mushroom
2 tablespoons fat
catchup
2 tablespoons flour
Salt and pepper
1 cup stock
Mustard
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Slice onions and sauté them in the fat in a small saucepan
until they are well browned; then add the flour, mushroom
catchup, stock, salt, pepper and mustard to taste and the lemon-
juice. This sauce may be served with both cold and hot meats.
CURRY SAUCE
1 tablespoon fat
1 pint stock, milk or water
2 teaspoons chopped onion
1 tablespoon flour
1 teaspoon curry-powder
Salt and pepper
This sauce is used as a basis for many dishes. Cold meat or
fish, oysters, hard-cooked eggs, canned or left over salmon, lob-
ster, and shrimps, all may be heated in this sauce and a great
variety of dishes is thus made possible. Have the fat hot and
sauté in it the chopped onion until a delicate brown, then add
the curry-powder and stock or water. Simmer for ten minutes
and then stir in the flour that has been rubbed smooth in a
tablespoon of cold water. Allow it to boil for a minute or two,
stirring constantly. Strain and it is ready for use.
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
317
SAUCE SUPREME
2 tablespoons fat
2 tablespoons lemon-juice
2 tablespoons flour
2 teaspoons chopped parsley
1 cup chicken stock
Place the fat in a frying-pan, over the fire, and when it is
hot, add the flour. Stir well. When it is turning brown, add
the chicken stock and boil for several minutes, stirring con-
stantly. Then add the lemon-juice and the parsley. After
the sauce has boiled up once, it is ready to serve.
OLIVE SAUCE
2 dozen olives
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons salad oil
1 pint stock
1 slice onion
Salt and pepper
1 lemon
Place the olives in an earthenware bowl, cover with hot water
and let them remain for half an hour to draw out the brine.
Place the oil in a frying-pan, and add the onion; when this
commences to color, add the flour. Stir until smooth. After
it has cooked for two minutes, add the stock, and regulate the
heat so that the sauce will simmer gently. Pare the olives from
the stones, round and round as though paring an apple, leaving
the pulp in a single strip. If this is done carefully, the olives
will coil back into shape. Place them in the sauce, add the
seasoning and the juice of the lemon and simmer for twenty
minutes. Skim carefully and serve.
SPANISH SAUCE
1 tablespoon minced lean raw
2 tablespoons flour
ham
1/2 cup stock
1 tablespoon chopped celery'
1/2 cup tomato-juice
1 tablespoon chopped carrot
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1/8 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons fat
Melt the fat. Add the ham and vegetables and cook until
they are brown. Make a sauce of this mixture and the flour,
salt, pepper and liquid.
318
CHATEAUBRIAND SAUCE
3 tablespoons fat
Pepper
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 teaspoon minced parsley
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups Spanish sauce
Whip together the fat, lemon-juice, salt, a pinch of pepper
and minced parsley. Add the Spanish sauce, reheat, stir for
a moment and serve.
TOMATO SAUCE
1 quart fresh or canned
3 tablespoons fat
tomatoes
3 tablespoons flour
1 slice onion
Salt and pepper
8 cloves
Set the tomatoes, onion and cloves on the fire and cook for
twenty minutes. Brown the fat in the frying-pan, add the
flour, and cook until smooth and brown, stirring constantly.
Add the tomatoes, cook for three minutes, season with salt and
pepper and pass through a strainer fine enough to hold back
the seeds. This makes a very thin sauce. Use more flour if
you prefer a thick sauce.
TOMATO AND MUSHROOM SAUCE
2 slices bacon or small quan-
2 cloves
tity uncooked ham
1/2 teaspoon peppercorns
1 slice onion
Few gratings nutmeg
6 slices carrot
1/2 No. 2 can tomatoes
Bay-leaf
5 tablespoons flour
2 sprigs thyme
1 1/2 cups brown stock
Sprig parsley
Salt and pepper
1/2 No. 1 can mushrooms
Chop the bacon or ham, and cook with onion and carrot
for five minutes. Add bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, cloves, pepper-
corns, nutmeg, and tomatoes, and cook five minutes. Mix the
flour with five tablespoons of cold water and rub out all the
lumps; then add enough water so that the batter can be poured
in a thin stream. Add to the sauce, stirring constantly. As
the sauce thickens, dilute it with the stock. Cover, set in the
SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT AND VEGETABLES
319
oven (300° F.) and cook one hour. Strain, add salt and
pepper to taste and the mushrooms, drained and cut in quarters.
Then cook two minutes over direct heat.
RAVIGOTE SAUCE
1 cup thin white sauce
1 tablespoon minced chervil
1/4 cup lemon-juice
1 tablespoon minced tarragon
1 tablespoon tarragon vine-
leaves
gar
1 tablespoon minced chives
1 tablespoon minced shallot
1 tablespoon butter
While sauce is hot, add other materials, except butter. Keep
hot five minutes, strain, beat in butter. Serve hot or cold.
BROWNED BUTTER
Place a piece of butter in a hot frying-pan and toss about
until it browns. Stir browned flour into it until it is smooth
and commences to boil. This is used for coloring gravies,
sauces, etc.
BROWNED FLOUR
Spread flour on a pie-tin and place on the stove or in a very
hot oven (450°-500° F.). When it begins to color, stir con-
stantly until it is evenly browned throughout. When cold,
cork closely in jars.
GLAZING FOR MEAT
No. 1--Boil one quart of consommé until it is reduced to one
cup. For half-glaze, reduce it to one pint.
No. 2-Simmer a small amount of jellied stock with burnt
sugar until it becomes like a sirup.
No. -To one cup brown stock, add one-half tablespoon
gelatin soaked in four tablespoons water. The glaze should be
melted over hot water and applied to meat, fish, game or
poultry.
ENTREES AND MADE-OVER DISHES
337
EGG CROQUETTES
2 cups chopped, hard-cooked
1/8 teaspoon pepper
eggs
Dash of cayenne
1 cup thick white sauce
Egg and crumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
Chop the eggs fine, moisten with sauce as soft as can
be
handled, and season. Let chill thoroughly on flat dish, well
greased, then divide evenly into portions, allowing two table-
spoons for each croquette. Shape into any desired form. Roll
in crumbs, dip in egg, again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat
(375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes. Drain on soft
paper. Serve with a sauce.
FISH CROQUETTES
2 cups cooked fish
Egg and crumbs
1/2 cup drawn-butter sauce
Mince fish. Season to taste and moisten with drawn-butter
sauce. Spread upon a greased platter, and when stiff mold
into cutlets. Roll in fine crumbs, then in egg, and again in
crumbs, leave in the refrigerator until firm, and fry in deep fat
(375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes.
HAM CROQUETTES
2 cups mashed potatoes
Cayenne
1 tablespoon fat
1 cup cooked ham
3 egg-yolks
Egg and crumbs
Mix potato, fat, yolks of two eggs and cayenne, beat until
smooth, then set to cool. Chop the ham, mix with the other
yolk, cook until the mixture thickens, and turn out to cool.
When thoroughly cool, take a tablespoon of the potato mix-
ture, make a hole in it, put a large teaspoon of the chopped
ham inside, close the hole and form a ball. Dip into flour,
then into egg, roll in crumbs, and fry in deep fat (375°-390°
F.) from two to five minutes.
338
LOBSTER CROQUETTES
2 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
1/3 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon mustard
1 cup milk
Egg and crumbs
2 cups cooked lobster meat
Make a white sauce, using the fat, flour and milk. Add
chopped lobster meat, which has been seasoned with lemon-
juice and mustard. Cool, shape, dip in flour, then in egg; roll
in crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five
minutes. Serve with tomato cream sauce.
OYSTER CROQUETTES
1 pint oysters
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon parsley
2 tablespoons flour
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 egg-yolk
Egg and crumbs
Clean the oysters (see Index). Heat in their own liquor
until the edges begin to curl, stirring all the time. Strain the
liquor and chop the oysters. Rub together fat and flour. Add
the oyster liquor and cook until thick. Then add the chopped
oysters and the well-beaten egg-yolk. After taking from the
fire, add salt, minced parsley and the lemon-juice. When stiff,
mold into desired shape. Dip in crumbs, beaten egg and crumbs
again, then fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five
minutes. Serve with horseradish sauce.
No. 1.
SALMON CROQUETTES
1 3/4 cups cooked salmon, fresh
Salt and pepper
or canned
Cayenne
2 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
1/3 cup flour
Egg and crumbs
1 cup milk
Make a white sauce with the fat, flour and milk. Add salt,
a little white pepper, and a few grains of cayenne. To this
cream foundation add cold flaked salmon and lemon-juice.
Spread on a plate to cool. Shape; roll in fine crumbs, then in
egg and again in crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.)
from two to five minutes.
ENTREES AND MADE-OVER DISHES
339
No. 2.
1 cup hot mashed potatoes
Salt and pepper
1 cup flaked salmon
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
Eggs and crumbs
Add potato to salmon. Season with salt, pepper and lemon-
juice. Shape into cutlets, egg and crumb and fry in deep fat
(375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes.
SHAD ROE CROQUETTES
2 shad roe
1 tablespoon nutmeg, grated
1 tablespoon salt
Pepper
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon finely chopped
2 tablespoons flour
parsley
1 cup milk or cream
1 teaspoon lemon-juice
2 egg-yolks
Egg and crumbs
Wash the shad roe. Put them on the stove in a saucepan of
boiling water; add the salt, cover and simmer slowly a few
minutes; then remove the skin and mash them. Make a white
sauce with the fat, flour and milk, add egg-yolks, remove from
the stove, and add the seasonings and mashed roe. Mix
thoroughly and turn into a dish to cool. When cold form into
croquettes. Roll in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg, again in
bread-crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to
five minutes.
SURPRISE CROQUETTES
2 cups mashed potatoes
Salt and pepper
4 tablespoons cream
Cooked meat, cheese or vege-
1 teaspoon onion-juice
table
2 egg-yolks
Crumbs and flour
1 egg-white
To the mashed potato add cream or rich milk, onion-juice
and salt and pepper to taste. Beat over the fire until smooth
and hot. Remove, slightly cool, and add the beaten egg-yolks.
Form into cylinders, or cone shapes; make a depression in each,
and into this put a teaspoon of creamed chicken, minced highly
seasoned meat, grated cheese, or a vegetable in cream sauce.
Press the potato around the filling. Beat the egg-white slightly,
dilute with a tablespoon of water, roll the croquettes in flour,
340
then in the beaten egg-white, and then in seasoned bread-
crumbs, and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five
minutes.
SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES
2 pairs sweetbreads
2 tablespoons fat
1/4 cup mushrooms
4 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 cup milk or cream
1/2 teaspoon parsley
2 eggs
Salt and pepper
Egg and crumbs
Prepare sweetbreads (see Index) Separate from mem-
branes, add chopped mushrooms and seasonings. Make a white
sauce with the fat, flour and milk or cream, add sweetbread
mixture and cook for three minutes. Remove from the fire
and add two eggs, well beaten. Beat slowly. Pour this mix-
ture on a platter and set it away to cool. Shape into cylinders,
roll in beaten egg, then in bread or cracker-crumbs, and fry in
hot fat (375°-390° F.) from two to five minutes, using the
frying-basket. Serve with Béchamel sauce.
VEAL CROQUETTES
2 tablespoons butter or other
1 egg
fat
2 cups minced veal
3 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup chopped ham
1 cup milk
1/4 cup mushrooms, truffles
1 teaspoon onion-juice
or sweetbreads
Salt and pepper
Egg and crumbs
Paprika
Make a white sauce with the fat, flour and milk, and add
onion-juice, a little salt, pepper and paprika. Stir in the beaten
egg, cook one minute and remove from the fire. Add to this
the minced veal, the chopped ham and the chopped mushrooms,
sweetbread, or truffles. When the mixture is cold, form into
small cylinder or pyramid shapes, roll in flour, then in egg and
then in crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) from two
to five minutes.
ENTREES AND MADE-OVER DISHES
341
POTATO OR HOMINY CROQUETTES
4 cups mashed potatoes or
Onion-juice
cooked hominy
Nutmeg
2 tablespoons cream or milk
2 egg-yolks
Salt and pepper
Egg and crumbs
Chopped parsley
To the mashed hot potatoes or hominy, add cream or milk,
and seasonings. Mix well and beat until light, add the well-
beaten yolks of eggs and let stand till cold. Shape into oblong
or pear-shaped croquettes, roll in fine bread-crumbs, then in
beaten egg, and again in crumbs. Fry at once, until brown, in
hot fat (375°-390° F.).
Potato croquettes may be made more dainty by rubbing the
potato mixture through a sieve before adding the eggs. Short;
leafless stalks of parsley thrust into pear-shaped croquettes after
the manner of stems will make them very attractive.
RICE CROQUETTES
1 cup boiled rice
Grated lemon-peel
1/4 cup milk
1 egg
1 tablespoon sugar
Egg and crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
Combine rice, milk, sugar, salt, grated lemon-peel and the
well-beaten egg, and when cold, shape in ovals, roll in egg, then
in bread-crumbs or rolled crackers, and fry a rich brown in deep
fat (375°-390° F.).
RICE FAN-TAN
1/2 cup rice
1 egg
2 cups milk
1/2 cup candied fruits
1/2 teaspoon salt
Egg and crumbs
2 tablespoons sugar
Powdered sugar
Cook rice in milk until very soft. Stir in salt, sugar and
well-beaten egg, and remove at once from the fire. Mix in
cut up candied fruits-cherries, apricots, pineapple, etc.-and
turn into a shallow, well-oiled pan to cool. When firm, cut
into strips about one and one-half inches wide and three inches
long, dip into egg then into bread-crumbs and brown delicately
on both sides in butter or other fat. Drain, dust with powdered
sugar and serve hot.
VEGETARIAN DISHES
EGETARIAN dishes make agreeable variations in the diet,
and frequently reduce the food bill. They are welcome
in any household where the program of using meat only once
a day is being followed. Dishes containing a large percentage
of milk, eggs or cheese, together with dried legumes, nuts or
gelatin, are nutritious and typical vegetarian dishes.
People not accustomed to meatless menus may experience
an unsatisfied feeling at the end of a meal that is entirely
vegetarian. This is largely due to the fact that meat is a highly
flavored food. The housewife will do well, therefore, to offer
some well-seasoned dish in a vegetarian menu.
A ring mold is a decorative way of scrving vegetarian dishes
with no extra labor. The following recipes calling for a loaf
form may be used for the ring mold. See page 344.
CHESTNUT CROQUETTES
2 cups hot mashed chestnuts
Few drops of onion-juice or
4 tablespoons fat
2 tablespoons minced onion
2 eggs
Egg and crumbs
Salt and pepper
Mix the chestnuts, fat, slightly beaten eggs and seasonings.
Shape into croquettes. Roll in crumbs, then in beaten egg and
again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat F.) until
crumbs are brown (2-5 minutes).
This dish offers adequate protein and iron and a compara-
tively highly seasoned dish. The croquettes may be served
with brown sauce or tomato sauce.
PEANUT BALLS
1 tablespoon fat
Pepper
2 tablespoons flour
2 cups cooked rice
1/2 cup milk
1/4 cup ground peanuts
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
Make white sauce from fat, flour, milk and seasoning. Mix
rice, peanuts, white sauce and beaten egg, and shape into small
351
352
balls. Sauté in a greased frying-pan turning frequently so that
the balls are browned all over. Or, roll in beaten egg, then in
crumbs and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.). .
This dish is low in both iron and protein, therefore milk,
eggs or cheese should appear elsewhere in the menu. These
balls are good served with cheese sauce.
PEANUT SCRAPPLE
1 cup hot milk
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 quart boiling water
1/8 teaspoon paprika
1 cup yellow corn-meal
1 1/2 cups chopped peanuts
3/4 cup hominy grits
1/4 to 1 cup grated cheese
Combine hot milk and boiling water, bring to boiling-point
and add corn-meal, hominy grits and seasoning. Stir constantly
until the liquid is thickened by the cereal. Place in a double
boiler and cook one hour. Ten minutes before taking up, add
the peanuts and cheese.
Place in a deep rectangular bread-pan and allow it to cool.
When ready to use, cut in small slices (roll in egg and crumbs
if desired) and fry in deep fat (375°-390° F.) until brown
(2-5 minutes) ; or place in a greased baking-pan, sprinkle with
grated cheese mixed with bread-crumbs and bake in a moderate
oven (350°-400° F.) until brown.
This makes an excellent luncheon or supper dish.
PEANUT BUTTER CUTLETS
1 1/2 cups peanut butter
Pepper
1 1/2 cups hot milk
6 half-inch slices of bread
1 teaspoon salt
Mix peanut butter with hot milk and seasoning, mixing to-
gether thoroughly. Dip slices of bread into the peanut-butter
mixture. Sauté in hot fat. Garnish with pickles and olives.
This dish offers both adequate protein and iron.
BAKED PEANUTS
4 cups shelled raw peanuts
4 tablespoons salad oil
Cover peanuts with cold water and soak over night. In the
morning, place them over the fire, and boil ten minutes. Re-
VEGETARIAN DISHES
353
move from water and dry. Add oil and mix well. Place the
mixture in a greased baking-dish and bake (400° F.) until the
peanuts are soft and well browned.
If extra seasoning is desired, a small quantity of catchup,
salt, molasses and mustard may be added during the baking,
as for baked beans.
PEANUT SOUFFLE
1 tablespoon fat
Few drops lemon-juice
6 tablespoons flour
1 1/2 cups scalded mlik
3/4 cup peanut butter
4 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
Melt the fat and add the flour, peanut butter and seasoning.
Cook for three minutes, stirring constantly. Add scalded milk,
and continue cooking until the mixture reaches the boiling-
point. Remove from the fire, pour the hot mixture over the
well-beaten egg-yolks, mixing thoroughly. Cool, and fold in
the egg-whites that have been beaten until stiff and dry. When
the ingredients are thoroughly combined, place in a ring mold,
set in a pan of water in a slow oven (375° F.) and bake thirty
minutes. Serve immediately.
This is a hearty main dish, but, because of its texture, should
have something crisp or solid served with it.
MOCK SAUSAGE
1 cup dried Lima beans or
3 eggs
3 cups cooked beans of
2 tablespoons fat
any kind
1/2 teaspoon sage
2/3 cup bread-crumbs
Salt and pepper
Pick over and wash beans, cover with water and let soak over
night. Drain, cook in boiling salted water until tender, then
force through a strainer. Add remaining ingredients, shape
into the form of sausages, roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again.
Sauté until brown. Serve with tomato sauce.
This recipe makes six to eight sausages, three inches long and
three-fourths of an inch thick. It should be accompanied by
some milk, egg or cheese dish.
354
PEANUT CHOPS
6 half-inch slices rye bread
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup peanut butter
1/8 teaspoon paprika
3/4 cup top milk
Cracker-crumbs
2 eggs
Cut crust from bread and divide in lengthwise strips. Spread
peanut butter on both sides of each strip. Add milk and season-
ing to the eggs and beat thoroughly. Dip strips of bread into
the mixture, remove and dip into sifted cracker-crumbs. Put
into a greased bread-pan and bake in a hot oven (400°-450°
F.) until golden brown. This is a good main dish.
BAKED COW PEAS
2 cups cooked cow peas
1 chopped onion
or split peas
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
2 cups boiled rice
Salt, pepper, and butter
2 cups stewed tomatoes
Put the cooked peas, rice, tomatoes and onion in layers in a
greased baking-dish. Season well, cover with bread-crumbs and
bake (400°) until brown. Serve with brown sauce.
This needs eggs, milk or cheese to accompany it, but it has
excellent flavor.
BEAN ROAST
1 cup roasted shelled peanuts
1/4 cup milk
2 cups seasoned mashed
1 egg
potatoes
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups cooked Lima beans,
1/8 teaspoon paprika
fresh or canned
1 teaspoon onion-juice
Grind the peanuts, using the finest blade of the food-chopper.
In a greased baking-dish place a layer of potatoes, a layer of
beans and a layer of peanuts. Continue making layers until all
the ingredients are used. Blend milk with well-beaten egg and
seasoning and pour over the top. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°-400° F.) until brown. Serve with brown sauce or
tomato sauce.
VEGETARIAN DISHES
355
VEGETABLE LUNCHEON
1 pound kidney beans
2 cups cooked tomatoes, fresh
1 cup diced carrot
or canned
1 green pepper, chopped
1/2 cup rice
1 large onion
1/2 dozen large mushrooms
Soak the beans in cold water overnight; drain and cook in
boiling water slowly for about four hours. A ham-bone or a
piece of bacon cooked with them adds to the flavor. Drain, add
carrot, pepper, tomatoes, and thin slices of onion. Simmer until
tender. Boil rice separately in salted water, drain and add to
the vegetables. (The rice water should be used in soups or
gravies.) Garnish with sautéed green peppers and mushrooms.
CELERY, NUT AND POTATO LOAF
2 large stalks celery
1 egg
3/4 cup chopped nuts
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups mashed potatoes
1/8 teaspoon paprika
3 tablespoons fat
2 teaspoons grated onion
Wash, cut in small pieces and cook the celery until tender
in a small amount of boiling salted water. Drain off liquid.
(This may be used for soup stock later.) Then add the other
ingredients to the celery in the order in which they are given.
Combine them carefully, pack in a loaf in a greased bread-
pan, and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) for thirty-
five minutes. Serve with tomato sauce.
CARROT LOAF OR RING
2 cups ground carrot
2 cups strained tomatoes
2 cups bread-crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup chopped nuts
1/8 teaspoon pepper
3 eggs
2 teaspoons minced onion
Mix the, ingredients in the order given. Shape the mixture
into a loaf and put into a greased baking-pan. Steam the loaf
for one hour and then brown it in the oven (400° F.). Or pour
into greased ring mold, set in pan of hot water and bake in
moderate oven (350° F.) until firm-about 40 minutes. Un-
mold on a hot plate; fill center with hot cooked peas.
356
PEANUT AND CARROT LOAF
1 cup chopped carrots
1 1/2 tablespoons fat
1 cup coarse ground peanuts
4 eggs, slightly beaten
1 cup strained tomatoes
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1 cup crumbs
Salt
Chop separately the carrots and peanuts, or put them through
the food-chopper, using the coarse knife. Add the other in-
gredients and form in a loaf. Place in a greased pan and bake
one hour and a quarter in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
NUT LOAF
2 cups soft bread-crumbs
2 eggs
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups chopped nut-meats
1 teaspoon paprika
Soak bread-crumbs in milk, add nuts, slightly beaten eggs and
seasonings. Turn into greased bread-pan, set into pan of water
and bake (350° F.) forty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce.
The loaf may be steamed instead of baked.
PEANUT ROAST
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 tablespoon chopped celery
1 cup green pea pulp, fresh or
2 tablespoons fat
canned
1/2 cup hot water
Juice of half a lemon
1 1/2 cups chopped peanuts
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
Dash of pepper
Cook onion and celery in fat until golden brown. Add hot
water and simmer until vegetables are tender. Mix other in-
gredients, adding the egg last. Combine the mixture with the
celery and onion mixture. Pack into greased baking-dish and
bake (350° F.) until golden brown. Serve with cream sauce.
BOSTON ROAST
1 1/2 cups dry kidney beans
2 tablespoons chopped onion
3 tablespoons salt
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 to 2 cups grated cheese
1/2 cup milk
Soak beans twenty-four hours.
Cook until soft in water in
which the salt has been dissolved. Drain; chop; add onion,
VEGETARIAN DISHES
357
cheese, crumbs, more salt if needed, and enough milk to moisten.
Form into a loaf. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) for
forty minutes. Baste occasionally with hot water and fat.
BAKED BEAN ROAST
2 tablespoons minced peppers
2 cups crumbs
2 tablespoons minced onion
1 cup tomatoes
4 tablespoons fat
Salt and pepper
4 cups mashed baked beans
1/2 teaspoon paprika
2 eggs, slightly beaten
Cook pepper and onion in fat. Add other ingredients in the
order given. Bake (350° F.) in greased baking-dish for thirty
minutes. Serve with brown sauce or tomato sauce.
A cheese or milk dish should be added to this meal.
LIMA BEAN LOAF
2 cups Lima beans
1 tablespoon poultry seasoning
1 cup dry bread-crumbs
2 tablespoons grated onion
4 tablespoons peanut butter
1 tablespoon bacon fat
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 cup milk (more, if needed)
Wash and soak the beans overnight, then cook in boiling
water until soft (about forty-five minutes). Drain, cool, then
chop coarsely. Add crumbs mixed with peanut butter and
seasoning, then fat, and milk to moisten. Put into a greased
bread-pan and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) thirty
minutes. Serve with brown sauce, cream sauce or tomato
sauce.
COTTAGE CHEESE AND PEANUT LOAF
1/2 cup peanuts
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cottage cheese
Dash of pepper
1 cup cold, cooked rolled oats
1 teaspoon poultry seasoning
1 cup milk
Few drops Worcestershire
1 egg, slightly beaten
sauce
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon chopped onion
Chop peanuts and add other ingredients in order given.
When thoroughly combined, place in a greased bread-tin. Bake
in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) until brown. Serve hot
with tomato sauce.
358
NUT AND CHEESE LOAF
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon fat
1/4 teaspoon paprika
1 cup grated cheese
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 cup chopped nuts
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire
1/2 cup milk
sauce
1 cup cooked cereal
Buttered crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
Cook onion in fat until delicately brown. Mix with all the
other ingredients and moisten with milk. Cover with buttered
crumbs and brown in oven (400° F.). Serve hot with tomato
sauce.
Serve with some crispy food such as celery.
CHEESE MACARONI LOAF
3/4 cup macaroni
1/2 cup grated cheese
1 teaspoon parsley
1 1/2 cups milk
2 teaspoons chopped onion
1 egg
1 tablespoon green pepper
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 cup buttered crumbs
Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender. Sauté
the parsley, onion and pepper in the fat until tender. Drain
water from macaroni. Place a layer of this in a buttered bak-
ing-dish, then a layer of peppers, onions and cheese. Repeat
until dish is full. Pour over it the milk mixed with the egg.
Cover with buttered crumbs, and brown in oven (400° F.).
Serve with tomato sauce.
VEGETABLE LOAF
1/2 cup cooked green peas
1 cup soft bread-crumbs
1/2 cup cooked green string
1/2 teaspoon salt
beans
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup chopped boiled carrots
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1 1/2 cups milk
1 egg
Press peas through a sieve, cut beans in small pieces, then
combine all vegetables. Add to them the milk, slightly beaten
egg, crumbs and seasoning. Turn into a greased baking-dish
and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) until firm.
418
dip in seasoned crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in more crumbs,
and fry in deep fat (395° F.) from four to five minutes. When
the slices are brown, drain on soft paper. Serve on a platter or
other flat dish. Fried squash makes an excellent luncheon dish.
SQUASH IN THE SHELL
1 squash
Egg
3 tablespoons butter
Milk
Salt and pepper
Cut off the top of a small squash, remove the seeds and
stringy portion, place in a pan and boil, steam or bake about
two hours, until tender. Remove the pulp from the shell, being
careful to keep the large shell intact. Mash the pulp and season
it with salt, pepper and butter.
Return the mixture to the shell, smooth the surface to a dome
shape, score with a knife, brush over with milk and beaten egg,
add bits of butter and place in a quick oven (400° F.) for a
few minutes to brown. Or leave the pulp in the squash, season
well and fill center with ham a la king, chicken a la king,
creamed salmon or sausage mixtures.
BOILED SPINACH
No. 1-AMERICAN STYLE
2 pounds spinach
3 tablespoons butter
Salt and pepper
Remove roots and wilted leaves of the spinach. Wash in
several waters, until all trace of sand has disappeared. Place in
a large kettle without additional water; the water which clings
to the leaves is sufficient. Cover the kettle and cook with low
heat until the spinach is tender. The time of cooking depends
on the age of the spinach. Long cooking darkens it. Salt the
water just before cooking is completed. When done, drain,
chop, season with salt, pepper and butter and one tablespoon
lemon-juice, if desired.
SPINACH MOLD-
1 peck spinach, cooked and
1/4 cup butter
chopped
1 1/2 cups bread crumbs
3 unbeaten eggs
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/4 cup milk
1 teaspoon salt
VEGETABLES
419
Combine all ingredients, turn into a buttered ring mold and
steam 2 hours. Unmold and garnish with hard-cooked eggs and
carrots. Fill center of mold with mashed potatoes or creamed
mushrooms.
CREAMED SPINACH
2 pounds spinach
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon butter
2. tablespoons cream
2 hard-cooked egg-yolks
Cook spinach according to directions for boiled spinach No. 1,
drain well, and chop fine. Return to fire, add butter, salt
and pepper, and stir until the butter is melted, then add cream
and chopped yolks and mix well.
SPINACH SOUFFLE
2 cups cooked spinach, fresh or canned
2 eggs
This is a satisfactory way to dispose of left-over cooked
spinach. To the spinach add egg-yolks beaten, place in a
granite saucepan, heat and stir over the fire until the egg sets;
then remove from the heat and when cold add the beaten egg-
whites. Fill individual baking-dishes one-half full of this mix-
ture. Set the dishes in a pan of hot water and bake in a moder-
ate oven (375° F.) from twenty to thirty minutes. Serve at
once to prevent falling.
SPINACH IN EGGS
2 cups boiled spinach
Mustard
6 eggs
Butter
Salt
Vinegar
Red pepper
While the spinach is cooking, cook the eggs hard. Cut eggs
in halves crosswise and remove the yolks. Cut a slice from the
bottom of each cooked egg-white so that it will stand on a
platter. Season the yolks with red pepper, mustard, butter and
salt. Mix thoroughly with vinegar to taste. Fill the egg-cups
with the spinach, mounding it high, and put the rest around
the egg. Put the prepared yolks in a ricer and squeeze over all.
420
SUCCOTASH
2 cups green corn or
Salt and pepper
1 cup dried corn
1 cup milk
2 cups fresh Lima, string or
4 tablespoons butter
butter beans or 1 cup dried
Lima beans
If fresh vegetables are used, cut the corn from the cob. Cover
the beans with the least possible amount of boiling water, to
prevent scorching, and cook until tender. Drain off the water,
add the corn and the milk and cook slowly until the corn is
tender. Add the butter and other seasoning.
When dried corn and beans are used, soak both separately
over night. In the morning, cover the beans with fresh water,
and boil them very gently until tender. Do not drain the water
from the corn, but reduce heat so it will cook slowly. When
the beans are tender, drain and add them to the corn, allowing
only water enough to cover. Cook slowly until tender and drain
off water to save for soup. Add the milk and seasoning.
STEWED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes, fresh or canned
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons butter
Crumbs or flour
Pour boiling water on fresh tomatoes, and after they have
remained covered one minute drain them and plunge them into
cold water. Slip off the skins, remove the hard stem ends, and
cut the tomatoes in pieces. Stew them in their own juice in a
graniteware or porcelain-lined kettle until tender, add butter,
salt, and pepper. Bread-crumbs or cracker-crumbs, or a little
flour blended with the butter, may be added for thickening.
FRIED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes
Crumbs
Salt and pepper
Select firm, ripe tomatoes, wash them and cut in half-inch
slices without removing the skins. Season fine crumbs with salt
and pepper, dip each slice of tomato in the crumbs, and sauté in
hot fat. Serve hot.
VEGETABLES
42I
BAKED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes
1 cup bread-crumbs
4 tablespoons fat
1 teaspoon sugar
Salt and pepper
Peel the tomatoes and cut them in slices one-fourth inch
thick. Place a layer of tomatoes in a pudding-dish, and sprinkle
over them a little salt and pepper. Rub the fat into the crumbs
with the sugar. Spread the mixture thickly upon the tomatoes,
using all of it, and add another layer of tomatoes. Add bits
of butter or other fat, sprinkle with dry crumbs, and bake
(350° -400° F.) twenty minutes.
BROILED TOMATOES
6 tomatoes
Melted butter
Salt and pepper
Choose firm, round tomatoes, cut them into slices, three-
quarters inch thick, dust each slice with salt and pepper, place
in a greased broiler and broil tender. Turn once carefully.
Add melted butter and serve at once.
SCALLOPED TOMATOES
6 large fresh tomatoes or
Bread-crumbs
1 quart cooked tomatoes,
Butter or other fat
fresh or canned
Grated cheese, if desired
Salt and pepper
Skin fresh tomatoes and cut them into slices. If using cooked
tomatoes, drain off the juice, using only the pulp. Place a layer
of tomato in a greased baking-dish, add a seasoning of salt and
pepper then a thin layer of bread-crumbs. Cut the fat into
tiny pieces and lay on the crumbs. Then add another layer of
tomato and proceed until the materials are used, having crumbs
for the top layer. Add bits of fat and bake for thirty minutes
in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.). Serve in the baking-dish.
Grated cheese may be added to each layer, or to the top one
only.
SALADS
429
CARDINAL SALAD
2 large beets
Mayonnaise made with vine-
2 tablespoons vinegar
gar from beets
1/2 cup wax beans
Lettuce
1/2 cup peas
Radishes for a garnish
1/2 cup asparagus tips
Boil beets until tender, slice, cover with vinegar and let stand
until the following day. Drain off the vinegar and use it in
making the mayonnaise. Arrange beans, peas, asparagus tips
and mayonnaise in little rose-like nests of lettuce leaves, and
garnish with radishes.
CARROT SALAD
1 cup grated raw carrot
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 cup chopped raw cabbage
1/2 teaspoon salt
or celery, or cabbage and
Mayonnaise or boiled dressing
celery combined
Lettuce leaves
Mix the ingredients well and serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
The grated carrot may be served alone on lettuce or may be
combined with cold boiled peas, with chopped nuts and apples,
or with onions and radishes.
CAULIFLOWER AND SHRIMP SALAD
1 cauliflower
Lettuce
Mayonnaise dressing
Cooked shrimps
Cook the cauliflower in boiling water, drain, and put it, head
down, into a bowl. When cold, place it, stem down, on a shal-
low dish and cover with mayonnaise. Garnish with lettuce ar-
ranged to resemble the leaves of the cauliflower, and add little
clusters of shrimps.
CELERY SALAD
2 cups celery
Strips of pimiento or green
1/2 cup mayonnaise
pepper and celery curls
After thoroughly washing the celery allow it to crisp in cold
water. Then wipe it dry, cut it into inch lengths and these
into lengthwise strips. Place them in a salad-bowl, and add
sufficient mayonnaise dressing to moisten the whole. Garnish
430
with the pimiento or pepper and the celery curls. Serve at once.
Celery salad admits of a wide range of additions, any cold meat,
fish or fowl left from a previous meal being palatable served
in it.
CELERY Curls-These are made from the tender inner
stalks. Cut in lengths of two or three inches and slit in nar-
row strips almost to the end. Place in water with plenty of
ice. As the slit stalks chill, the ends curl.
CRESS SALAD
1 pint water cress
1 onion
French dressing
Pick over the leaves of the cress carefully, removing all
bruised or wilted ones, wash and drain, and with the fingers
break the stems into two-inch lengths. Lay the cress in a salad
bowl, chop the onion very fine, strew it over the cress, add
French dressing and serve.
CRESS AND DANDELION SALAD
1 cup water cress
6 thin slices raw onion
1 cup dandelion greens
French dressing
The dandelion should be fresh and young. Wash the leaves
carefully and drain well. Arrange them in a salad bowl with
the cress. Add the slices of onion and pour the French dressing
over all.
CRESS AND WALNUT SALAD
1/2 cup walnut meats
1 pint water cress
1 lemon
French dressing
Crack walnuts and remove their meats as nearly as possible
in halves. Squeeze over them the juice of the lemon and let
them stand for a short time. Pick over the water cress and
wash it carefully. Drain it on a napkin and at the last moment
drench it with French dressing. Spread the nuts over it and
give them also a generous sprinkling of the dressing.
CUCUMBER SALAD
3 cucumbers
Salt
French dressing
Cut about an inch off the point of each cucumber, and pare
carefully. Slice very thin, sprinkle with a little salt, and let
stand ten minutes. Serve with French dressing.
SALADS
43I
CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD
1 pint grated cucumber
2 teaspoons cold water
Salt and paprika
6 halves of walnut-meats
2 tablespoons vinegar
Mayonnaise
1 tablespoon oil
Lettuce leaves
1 teaspoon gelatin
Peel cucumbers, removing most of the white as well as the
green skin. Grate enough to give one pint and season with salt,
paprika, vinegar and oil. Add gelatin mixed with cold water.
Place over the fire until warm and well mixed. Do not boil.
In the bottom of an individual mold put a half kernel of wal-
nut, then pour in the cucumber mixture and when it has cooled,
chill. When ready to serve, turn each mold on to a nest of
young lettuce leaves, and add a spoonful of mayonnaise.
LETTUCE SALAD
Choose for this the crisp center of the lettuce. Wash it, dry
it well, pull to pieces or cut it into four or six sections, and
arrange it in a salad bowl. Pour over the center of the dish
any dressing preferred. Mayonnaise is frequently used, and
Russian dressing is used even more frequently, perhaps, but
with a heavy dinner the French dressing is to be preferred to
any other.
The following vegetables may be used instead of or with let-
tuce: endive, peppergrass, water cress, nasturtium leaves, spin-
ach, chicory, sorrel, dandelion, escarole, and romaine.
LETTUCE AND ONION SALAD
2 lettuce hearts
French dressing
1 Spanish onion
Strip off, and set aside for some other purpose, the green
leaves of lettuce. Wash the hearts, pull them to pieces or cut
into sections, and drop into ice-water to crisp them. Peel
the Spanish onion and cut it into thin shavings. Shake the
lettuce in a colander or wire basket to free it from water or dry
on a towel. Fill the salad bowl with alternate layers of the
lettuce and onion slices, sprinkling on each layer a little French
dressing.
432
POTATO SALAD
No. 1.
1 quart potatoes
2 tablespoons grated onion
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
French dressing to moisten
Boil the potatoes with skins on and allow them to cool before
peeling, as it is considered a good thing to have potatoes waxy
rather than mealy for salad. Peel potatoes, cut into small pieces
or thin slices, and mix with parsley, onion, and French dressing.
Set in a cool place for two hours before serving.
No. 2.
1 quart new potatoes
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
1 tablespoon oil
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons vinegar
Thin mayonnaise or boiled
1 onion
dressing
2 stalks celery
Cut beets
1 tablespoon capers
Lettuce, lemon
Boil potatoes until done, but not too soft, slice them when
cooled and add oil and vinegar. Chop onion and celery very
fine, and add, with capers, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste.
Pour a thin mayonnaise over all, mixing thoroughly with a
wooden spoon and fork. Garnish with lettuce, a few pieces of
lemon and cut beets.
POTATO AND PEA SALAD
2 cups boiled potatoes, diced
1/2 cup French dressing
1 cup boiled peas
Lettuce, mayonnaise
Pour two-thirds of the French dressing over the diced pota-
toes, and the other third over the cold peas, and set where they
will be chilled. After an hour, combine them and arrange on
lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise.
SPINACH SALAD
1 pint spinach
2 hard-cooked eggs
French dressing
Wash spinach carefully. Select only thick, tender leaves (save
others and stems for cooking). If too large, tear to size. Shake
off excess water. Chop whites and yolks of eggs separately and
turn into bowl with leaves. Moisten with tart French dressing.
Add any mild-flavored vegetable.
SALADS
433
TOMATO AND LETTUCE SALAD
No. 1.
3 tomatoes
Lettuce leaves
6 tablespoons French dressing
Scald the tomatoes, remove the skins and chill the tomatoes.
Just before serving time, cut them in halves, crosswise, and
place one piece, with the outside upward, on each serving-plate
with one or two leaves of white, crisp lettuce underneath. Pour
over each portion a tablespoon of French dressing.
No. 2.
3 tomatoes
1/3 to 1/2 cup French dressing
Lettuce
1 tablespoon capers
Select smooth tomatoes about two inches in diameter. Scald,
peel and chill. Cut in quarters or in slices and arrange on a
plate with lettuce leaves or sections of lettuce hearts. Add
the capers to the dressing.
TOMATO AND CELERY SALAD
6 tomatoes
1/3 to 1/2 cup mayonnaise
2 cups celery, diced
Lettuce leaves
Select firm tomatoes of a good size, scald, peel and chill, cut
a slice from the top of each, and scoop out all the seeds and
soft pulp, being careful not to break the sides. Cut celery into
small dice, mix it with mayonnaise dressing, fill the shells with
mixture, place one teaspoon of the dressing on top of each
tomato and serve individually on a bed of lettuce leaves, plac-
ing three or four small leaves on each plate and the tomato in
the center.
TOMATO SURPRISE SALAD
6 tomatoes
1/4 cup mayonnaise dressing
3/4 cup diced cucumber
Lettuce
1/2 cup diced, cooked chicken
Parsley, cauliflower buds
1/4 cup chopped nuts
Select medium-sized smooth tomatoes. Scald, peel and chill.
Carefully scoop the inside out of the tomatoes. Remove the
seeds from the pulp. Chill all ingredients, and when ready to
serve, mix the chicken, cucumber, tomato pulp, and nuts with
434
the mayonnaise dressing. Add more salt if needed. Fill the
tomatoes. Arrange on lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise
and decorate each tomato top with parsley and cauliflower buds.
TOMATO JELLY SALAD
3 cups stewed tomatoes,
1 teaspoon sugar
fresh or canned
Salt
1/4 cup chopped onion
1 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup cold water
1 bay-leaf
1 clove
Lettuce
1/4 green pepper pod
Mayonnaise
Cook tomatoes with seasonings. Soak gelatin in cold water,
add to boiling tomatoes, strain and pour into cups about the
size of a tomato. Make a nest of small green lettuce leaves for
each mold when serving, and place one tablespoon of mayon-
naise on top of each tomato as it is turned from the mold.
Tomato jelly is often molded in a square pan and cut in
diamonds or cubes, when it makes an attractive garnish.
TOMATO ROSE SALAD
Firm tomatoes
Hard-cooked egg yolk
Cream cheese
Watercress or lettuce
Milk
French dressing
Peel tomatoes and chill them. Slightly soften cream cheese
with milk. Form two rows of petals on each tomato by pressing
level teaspoons of the softened cheese against the side of the to-
mato, then drawing the teaspoon down with a curving motion.
Sprinkle center of each tomato with hard-cooked egg yolk
pressed through a strainer. Serve on crisp watercress or lettuce
with French dressing.
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
1 pint cream
1 teaspoon powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups cut up fruit (fresh,
1 teaspoon instantaneous
canned, or candied cherries,
gelatin
peaches, pineapple, etc.)
2 tablespoons cold water
3/4 cup mayonnaise
Lettuce
Soak the gelatin in the cold water, melt it over steam, and
beat it into the mayonnaise. Add the sugar to the cream and
SALADS
435
whip it, then combine with the mayonnaise. Stir in the cut-up
fruit. Pack and freeze as directed in the preceding recipe. The
mayonnaise may be omitted and served separately.
ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD
2 alligator pears
French dressing
Lettuce leaves
The alligator pear, or avocado, is now available in all markets
at very reasonable prices throughout the greater part of the
year. Cut each pear into six pieces, giving wedge-shaped sec-
tions, and if these are too large, cut each section again length-
wise. Peel and arrange wedges on beds of lettuce leaves. Either
French dressing or Russian dressing may be used, but the fruit
is so rich that French dressing is preferred by most people.
APRICOT AND BANANA SALAD
2 cups lettuce leaves, shredded
Whipped cream or boiled
1 cup sliced bananas
dressing
6 stewed apricots
On each plate arrange a bed of shredded lettuce, and on it
place a layer of sliced ripe bananas, topped by the halves of an
apricot. Serve with whipped cream or boiled dressing.
BANANA AND NUT SALAD
3 well ripened bananas
1/2 cup mayonnaise or boiled
1/2 cup chopped nuts
dressing
6 leaves lettuce
Peel bananas and cut in two lengthwise. Roll each half in
nut-meats. Place on lettuce leaf and garnish with dressing.
Equal parts of dressing and whipped cream may be used.
COCONUT, CELERY AND APPLE SALAD
1 1/2 cups mixed diced tart
4 tablespoons orange-juice
apples and celery
Salt
1/2 cup shredded coconut
Paprika
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
Lettuce leaves
4 tablespoons oil
Currant or plum jelly
Mix the apples, celery, and coconut. Sprinkle with the
lemon-juice. Add a French dressing made from the oil and
SALADS
437
ORANGE SALAD
Peel oranges and free the sections entirely from the mem-
brane. Remove seeds, cut sections in halves crosswise, lay on
bed of lettuce leaves, and serve with French dressing. Sprinkle
with tarragon or with minced green pepper, if desired. Minced
celery may be added.
PEAR SALAD
No. 1.
3 pears
French dressing
Lettuce leaves
Strips of pimiento
After paring the fruit, cut in eighths lengthwise and remove
seeds. Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing
made from oil and lemon-juice. Garnish with strips of pi-
miento. The dressing will prevent discoloration if it is poured
over the pears at once.
No. 2.
6 pears
1/2 cup broken walnut-meats
6 stalks celery
and stoned olives, chopped
Mayonnaise
Lettuce leaves
Salt and pepper
Select well-formed pears and cut off a bit of the broad end
so that the pear will stand steadily on the plate. With a potato-
ball cutter remove the center, leaving enough of the pear to
make a thick cup. Cut the celery into dice, add broken walnut-
meats and chopped olives and mix all together with mayonnaise,
adding a pinch of salt and pepper. Fill the pear cups and serve
on lettuce leaves.
PEAR AND CHERRY SALAD
6 halves of stewed pears,
36 white cherries
fresh or canned
Boiled dressing or mayon-
Lettuce leaves
naise
Place the half pears on crisp lettuce leaves. Stone the cherries
and arrange them around the pears. Serve with preferred dress-
ing.
438
PINEAPPLE AND NUT SALAD IN TOMATO
BASKETS
1 cup crushed pineapple
6 tomatoes
1 cup broken nut-meats
Mayonnaise
French dressing
Salt
Mix pineapple with nut-meats and stand in French dressing
in the refrigerator. Peel and cut off the top of each tomato
leaving a strip to form a handle. Carefully scoop out the center
and fill with the pineapple and nuts. Place one teaspoon of
mayonnaise on top of each basket.
PINEAPPLE AND CREAM CHEESE SALAD
6 slices canned pineapple
French dressing
1 cup cream cheese
Lettuce leaves
Purple grape-juice
Work enough grape-juice into the cream cheese to soften it
so that it can be made into balls with the hands or with butter
paddles. Place a slice of pineapple on a lettuce leaf, put a cheese
ball on top and pour grape-juice and French dressing over all.
TROPICAL SALAD
1 cup cantaloup balls
Any desired dressing
6 slices tomatoes
Lettuce leaves
Garnish of red pepper
With a vegetable cutter, cut small balls from a cantaloup
that is fairly firm in texture. Arrange several balls on a slice
of tomato which has been placed on a nest. of lettuce leaves.
Garnish with pieces of red pepper or green pepper cut in dia-
mond shapes. Serve with any desired dressing.
WALDORF SALAD
1 cup diced apple
French dressing
1 cup diced celery
Lettuce leaves
1/2 cup broken walnut-meats
Mayonnaise
Fold together the apple, celery, and nuts with French dress-
ing and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. Do not allow
SALADS
439
this to stand long before serving, as the nuts will discolor the
fruit.
WASHINGTON SALAD
3/4 cup chopped celery
3/4 cup canned cherries
3/4 cup bottoms of artichokes,
3/4 cup diced grapefruit pulp
chopped
Cheese straws
Pile cheese straws in log-cabin style, on a large plate, leaving
a center space sufficient to hold the salad. Mix celery, arti-
chokes, cherries and grapefruit pulp with French dressing and
decorate with a large spoon of mayonnaise. Serve two cheese
straws with each portion of salad.
FROZEN CHEESE SALAD
1/2 pound cream cheese
1/2 cup cream, whipped
1 green pepper, chopped
2 to 4 teaspoons salt, celery
1 cup crushed pineapple
salt, mustard, paprika,
1/2 cup mayonnaise
mixed according to taste
Soften the cheese. Add pepper, mayonnaise, pineapple and
seasonings and fold in with whipped cream. Freeze.
CREAM CHEESE SALAD
1 1/2 cups cream cheese or
Lettuce leaves
cottage cheese
French dressing
Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on a salad-dish and press cream
cheese through a potato-ricer upon them, The cheese must be
thoroughly chilled before making a salad, and it should be
served immediately. Use French dressing and pass bar-le-duc
or guava jelly or any preferred fruit jam or jelly with it.
COMBINATION CREAM CHEESE BALL SALAD
3/4 cup cream cheese
1/4 cup chopped nut-meats or
3/4 cup chopped celery
chopped parsley
2 tablespoons chopped olives
French dressing
Lettuce leaves
Mix cream cheese with chopped celery and olives and form
into balls about the size of a large hickory nut. Roll each
440
ball in chopped nut-meats or chopped parsley. Arrange on
lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing.
PEAR-GRAPE SALAD-Frost the curved surface of one-half
pear with cream cheese, stud with one-half grapes and garnish
with chicory and watercress, or other attractive greens.
LETTUCE AND CHEESE SALAD
No. 1.
1 cup hard cheese
1/2 cup shredded lettuce
Milk or cream
1/2 cup pimiento strips
Pepper and salt
Lettuce leaves
6 chopped olives
Boiled or mayonnaise dressing
Put the cheese through a food-grinder and moisten slightly
with milk or cream. Add pepper and salt to taste. Add
chopped olives, shredded lettuce and pimiento strips. Press this
mixture into the form of a brick and, when cool and firm, cut
in slices. Place on lettuce leaves and serve with boiled or mayon-
naise dressing.
FROSTED MELON MOLD
Melon
Milk
Fruit gelatin
Curly endive or chicory
Cream cheese
French or mayonnaise dressing
Peel a whole melon. Cut a slice from end and remove seeds.
Fill center with fruit gelatin and refrigerate until gelatin is
firm. Slightly soften cheese with milk and frost the entire out-
side of melon. Serve in slices on crisp chicory, with dressing.
EGG AND PEANUT SALAD WITH CELERY
6 hard-cooked eggs
Mayonnaise
1/4 to 1/2 cup chopped peanuts
Celery curls
or peanut butter
Garnish of peanut halves
Cut the eggs in half lengthwise, remove the yolks and com-
bine with chopped peanuts or peanut butter and mayonnaise to
moisten. Fill the whites with this mixture. Put two halves
of egg on a plate, surround with curls of celery. Put two
tablespoons of mayonnaise dressing over each egg and garnish
with peanut halves. Lay a halved peanut on each celery
curl.
450
BOILED DRESSING
No. 1.
1/2 cup vinegar
1/2 teaspoon mustard
1 teaspoon fat
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 egg-yolks
1/16 teaspoon cayenne
1 tablespoon, sugar
Whipped cream, sweet or sour
Heat the vinegar to the boiling-point and melt the fat in
the vinegar. Beat the egg-yolks until thick and lemon-colored.
Add the sugar, mustard, salt and cayenne, mixed. Gradually
pour the hot vinegar on the yolk mixture, and cook in a double
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Add whipped cream
just before serving.
CREAMY EGGLESS MAYONNAISE
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/2 cup evaporated milk, undiluted
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons vinegar
Few grains white pepper
1/4 to 1 1/2 cups salad oil
Mix dry ingredients with milk; beat in vinegar, add oil grad-
ually, beating thoroughly. Since the mixture thickens somewhat
when chilled, it may be desirable to thin it with undiluted
evaporated milk before using, or less oil can be used if a thinner
mixture is desired. Makes 1 pint.
SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 teaspoon sugar
2 tablespoons vinegar
1/8 teaspoon cayenne
1 cup sour cream
This makes an excellent dressing for vegetable salads. Place
the salt, sugar, and pepper together in a bowl, mix well and
add the lemon-juice, then the vinegar. When the mixture is
perfectly smooth, put in the cream, stir well and set on the ice
until needed.
DRESSING FOR MEAT SALADS
Tartar, Hollandaise and Vinaigrette sauces (see Index for
recipes) may be used with meat salads if desired.
CAKES
457
ONE-EGG CAKE
1/4 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg, unbeaten
3/4 cup milk
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until fluffy.
Add egg and beat thoroughly. Sift dry ingredients together 3
times and add alternately with milk and vanilla. Pour into
greased pans. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 25 minutes.
Makes 2 (9-inch) layers.
CARMEL OR BURNT SUGAR CAKE
1 3/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup butter or other
1/3 cup hot water
shortening
3 cups sifted cake flour
3 eggs, unbeaten
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons burnt sugar
sirup
2/3 cup milk
Prepare burnt sugar sirup. Place 1/2 cup of the sugar in a
heavy skillet, stirring constantly as sugar melts. When it be-
comes dark brown, remove from heat, add hot water very
slowly and stir until dissolved. Cool. Sift flour, baking powder
and salt together 3 times. Cream shortening, add remaining
sugar (1 1/4 cups) gradually and cream until light and fluffy.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating thoroughly after each. Add van-
illa and 3 tablespoons of the sirup; blend. Add dry ingredients
and milk alternately, beating until smooth. Pour into pans
lined with waxed paper and bake in a moderate oven (350° F.)
25 to 30 minutes. Makes 2 (9-inch) layers.
IN-A-JIFFY CAKE
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
3/4 cup milk
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup melted shortening
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg, beaten
Sift dry ingredients together 3 times. Combine remaining
ingredients and add gradually to dry ingredients. Beat mix-
ture 2 minutes. Pour into greased cake pan. Bake in moderate
oven (350°F.) 30 minutes. Makes 1 (8 X 8 X 2 inch) cake.
458
ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE (Measure Cake)
1 cup butter or other
3 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 eggs, separated
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening and sugar until fluffy. Add egg yolks
1
at a time, beating thoroughly after each one is added. Sift dry
ingredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk and
vanilla to creamed mixture, beating until smooth after each
addition. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into pans lined
with waxed paper and bake in moderate oven (350°F.) 25 min-
utes. Makes 3 (9-inch) layers.
MAPLE SIRUP CAKE
1/2 cup sugar
Salt
1/3 cup shortening
2 1/4 cups flour
3/4 cup maple sirup
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup milk
3 egg whites
Cream the sugar and shortening together. Add the sirup and
stir well. Add the milk and flour alternately. Fold in the
beaten whites and bake in an oblong pan (350°-375°F. ) 45-60
minutes. When the cake is baked and cool, place it on an
inverted cake pan and cover with Maple Sugar Frosting, No. 2.
DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
2 1/4 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 7/8 cups brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3 eggs, well beaten
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup boiling water
3/4 cup sour milk
3 ounces (3 squares) bitter
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
chocolate
Cream shortening thoroughly; add sugar gradually and cream
mixture until light and fluffy. Add beaten eggs and beat well.
Meanwhile pour the boiling water over chocolate; stir over low
heat until smooth and thick; cool and add to egg mixture;
blend thoroughly. Sift flour once, measure and combine with
remaining dry ingredients and sift 3 times, then add to choco-
CAKES
459
late mixture, alternately with milk and vanilla combined. Beat
well after each addition. Pour batter into greased pans which
have been lined with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) until done, 25 to 30 minutes. Makes 3 (8-inch) lay-
ers. Spread with Boiled Frosting (page 479).
CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
shortening
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
4 eggs, separated
4 ounces (4 squares) bitter
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
chocolate (melted)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup walnuts, chopped
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening, add sugar slowly and beat until light and
fluffy. Add unbeaten egg yolks and beat vigorously. Sift dry
ingredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk to
creamed mixture. Stir in chocolate, nuts and vanilla and mix
well. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into waxed-paper-
lined loaf pan and bake in a moderately slow oven (325°F.)
about 50 minutes. Makes 1 loaf (4 X 8 inches). When cool,
spread top and sides with Marshmallow-Cream Frosting (page
482) or Boiled Frosting (page 479).
SOUR CREAM COCOA CAKE
1/2 cup cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup boiling water
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sifted cake flour
3 egg whites
Mix cocoa in boiling water and stir until smooth. Cool.
Cream shortening and sugar together until light and fluffy. Add
cocoa mixture to creamed mixture. Sift flour, salt and soda
together. Add dry ingredients alternately with cream to first
mixture. Beat until smooth after each addition. Add vanilla.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into pans lined with
waxed paper and bake in a moderate oven (350) F.) 30 minutes.
Makes 2 (9-inch) layers. Spread Mocha Frosting (page 482)
between layers and on top.
460
COFFEE CAKE
2 tablespoons shortening
3/4 cup flour
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cream the shortening and sugar, add the beaten egg yolk
and the sifted dry ingredients alternately with the milk. Add
vanilla. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg white. Spread one half
of the mixture in a deep greased piepan.
FILLING-
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 cup chopped walnuts
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons melted fat
Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and spread one half over
the batter in the pan. Add the rest of the cake batter and spread
the remainder of the filling over the top. Bake in a moderate
oven (350°-375°F.) 45-60 minutes.
SOUR MILK CHOCOLATE CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
2 ounces (2 squares)
1 1/2 cups sugar
chocolate, melted'
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sifted cake flour
3 eggs, separated
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour milk
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually, creaming until fluffy,
add vanilla and beaten egg yolks, then chocolate. Sift dry in-
gredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk. Fold
in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into 2 greased (9-inch) pans
and bake in a 350 F. oven 25 minutes.
GINGER COCONUT CAKES
2/3 cup molasses
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup butter or other
2 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon ginger
2 eggs, beaten
Heat first 5 ingredients to boiling, stirring constantly. Cool
CAKES
461
to lukewarm. Sift soda and flour together and add alternately
with milk and eggs, beating thoroughly. Pour into greased
muffin pans. Bake in a 350°F. oven 15 minutes. Makes 16 cakes.
Cover with boiled frosting and coconut.
NUT CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup milk
2 eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
1 cup chopped nut meats
Cream shortening and sugar, add egg yolks and beat well.
Sift flour and baking powder and add alternately with milk and
vanilla. Add nuts and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in
a greased loaf pan in a 350 F. oven 50 minutes.
WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
2 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 egg whites, stiffly beaten
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until light
and fluffy. Sift flour, baking powder and salt together 3 times
and add alternately with milk and vanilla a small amount at a
time, beating after each addition until smooth. Pour into a tube
pan lined with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.)
45 to 60 minutes. When cake is cold, cover with Boiled Frost-
ing, page 479.
WHITE CAKE
2/3 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
5 egg whites, stiffly beaten
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until light
and fluffy. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and add alter-
nately with milk and vanilla to creamed mixture. Fold in egg
whites. Pour into greased pans and bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) 30 minutes. Makes 3 (9-inch) layers.
462
GOLD CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
2 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 egg yolks, beaten
3/4 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg
yolks and continue creaming. Sift dry ingredients together 3
times; add alternately with liquids to creamed mixture. Beat
until smooth. Pour into cake pans lined with waxed paper.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 18 to 20 minutes. Makes 3
(9-inch) layers.
ORANGE CAKE
3/4 cup shortening
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 eggs
1/2 cup orange juice
Grated rind of 1 orange
1 tablespoon lemon juice
3 cups sifted cake flour
1/2 cup water
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually, creaming until light
and fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly after
each addition. Add orange rind. Sift dry ingredients together
3 times and add alternately with liquids to creamed mixture.
Pour into cake pans lined with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate
oven (350°F.) 25 to 30 minutes. Makes 2 (9-inch) layers.
When cold spread Orange Filling (page 477) between layers
and Twice Cooked Frosting or Seven Minute Frosting (page
479) on top and sides.
LAYER CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 eggs, separated
2/3 cup milk
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and beat until fluffy,
then add beaten egg yolks. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times
and add alternately with milk and vanilla to creamed mixture.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in 2 layers in a moderate
oven (350°F.) 20 minutes. When cold fill and frost as desired.
CAKES
463
LADY BALTIMORE CAKE
3/4 cup butter or other
1/2 teaspoon salt
shortening
1/2 cup milk
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
6 egg whites
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Sift flour,
baking powder and salt together 3 times. Combine milk, water
and vanilla. Add small amounts of flour to creamed mixture,
alternately with milk mixture, beating until smooth after each
addition. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry and fold into
mixture. Pour into cake pans lined with waxed paper. Bake in
moderate oven (350°F.) 25 minutes. Makes 3 (9-inch) layers.
LADY BALTIMORE FROSTING AND FILLING-
3 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup water
1/2 cup chopped figs
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup chopped raisins
3 egg whites, stiffly beaten
1 cup chopped nut meats
Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar together to 238°F. or
until a small amount of sirup will form a soft ball when tested
in cold water. Pour hot sirup gradually over beaten whites,
beating constantly and continuing to beat until mixture is of
spreading consistency. Add vanilla. Divide mixture in half.
Add fruit and nuts to 1 portion and spread between layers of
cake. Frost top and sides with remaining frosting.
MARBLE CAKE
1/3 cup butter or other
2 teaspoon baking powder
shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup milk
2 eggs, well beaten
1 ounce (1 square)
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
chocolate, melted
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until light
and fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Sift dry
ingredients together 3 times and add alternately with milk to
creamed mixture, beating until smooth. To 1/3 of the batter
add chocolate and blend thoroughly. Place by spoonfuls in a
greased tube pan, alternating light and dark mixtures. Bake in
a moderate oven (350°F.) 1 hour.
464
BLITZ TORTE
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup sugar
4 egg whites
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
4 egg yolks, beaten light
1/2 cup sliced blanched
1 teaspoon vanilla
almonds
3 tablespoons milk
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
Cream shortening; beat in sugar and salt, then egg yolks,
vanilla, milk and flour (sifted with baking powder). Spread
mixture in 2 round greased cake pans. Beat egg whites until
very light, add 3/4 cup sugar gradually and spread on the un-
baked mixture in both pans. Sprinkle with almonds, 1 table-
spoon sugar and cinnamon and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.)
about 30 minutes. Let cool and put together with cream fill-
ing. Makes 1 (9-inch) 2 layer cake.
CREAM FILLING-
1/3 cup sugar
2 egg yolks
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups milk, scalded
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine sugar, cornstarch, salt and egg yolks; beat thor-
oughly. Add butter and enough milk to make a smooth paste.
Add paste to remaining hot milk and cook over boiling water,
stirring constantly until mixture is thickened. Cool and add
vanilla. If desired add 1/2 cup chopped nut meats.
OLD-FASHIIONED POUNDCAKE
1 pound butter (2 cups)
10 eggs, separated
1 pound sifted cake flour
1 pound sugar (2 cups)
(4 cups)
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter, work in flour until mixture is mealy. Beat egg
yolks, sugar and vanilla until thick and fluffy. Add first mix-
ture gradually, beating thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten egg
whites. Beat vigorously 5 minutes. Bake in 2 loaf pans lined
with waxed paper, in a moderately slow oven (325°F.) 1 1/4
hours. Makes 2 loaves (8 X 4 inches).
CAKES
465
SPICE CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups brown sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
3 eggs, separated
1 teaspoon cloves
2 cups sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup thick sour cream
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy, add beaten
yolks. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and add alternately
with cream to first mixture, beating thoroughly after each addi-
tion. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into cake pan lined
with waxed paper. Bake in moderate oven (350°F.) about 50
minutes. Makes 1 cake (9 inches square).
FIG LOAF CAKE
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
4 eggs, well beaten
1 teaspoon nutmeg
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 cup water
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 pound figs, finely cut
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups chopped raisins
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually and cream until fluffy.
Beat in eggs. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and add alter-
nately with water to creamed mixture. Blend in fruits. Bake in
a waxed-paper-lined loaf pan (5 1/2 X 10 inches) in a slow oven
(300°F.) about 2 hours.
DELICIOUS FRUITCAKE
4 cups sifted cake flour
1 pound citron, sliced
1 teaspoon mace
2 cups blanched almonds,
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
sliced
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 pound butter
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups light brown sugar
3 pounds currants
9 eggs, separated
2 pounds seeded raisins
1 cup strong cold coffee
Sift flour, spices and soda together 3 times. Mix with fruits
and nuts. Cream butter and sugar together until fluffy. Beat
yolks until thick and whites until stiff; add to creamed mixture.
Add flour-fruit mixture alternately with coffee. Pour into
greased pans lined with greased paper. Bake in very slow oven
(275°F.) 3 to 4 hours. Rich fruitcake is sometimes steamed
1 hour, then baked for remaining time.
466
WEDDING CAKE
2 pounds butter
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 pound granulated sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
3/4 pound brown sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
20 eggs
2 tablespoons nutmeg
2 oranges, juice and grated
2 tablespoons mace
rind
1
glass tart jelly
1 lemon, juice and grated rind
3 pounds seeded raisins
1 teaspoon soda
2 pounds seedless raisins
1 cup molasses
5 pounds currants
1 cup black coffee
1 pound almonds
1 cup fruit juice
2 pounds citron
2 pounds flour
2 cups flour (for the fruit)
Cream the butter till very soft, add the white sugar and the
sifted brown sugar and mix thoroughly. Add the beaten yolks
and mix again with the grated rind. Add one half the soda
to the molasses, stir until foamy and add, with the coffee and
fruit juices, alternating with the two pounds of flour, the rest
of soda, the salt and spices sifted together. Break the jelly into
pieces and stir in. It is not necessary to have the jelly
thoroughly mixed in.
Look over the raisins and currants, wash if necessary, drain
and dry. Blanch the almonds and slice. Save half the nuts to
sprinkle on the bottom and top of cake. Cut the citron in thin
strips. Mix the two cups of flour thoroughly with this fruit.
Candied orange or grapefruit peel may be used for citron.
Mix the prepared fruit with the batter. This may be added
from time to time with the flour. When all is thoroughly com-
bined fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites.
This amount makes about twenty four pounds of cake, and
can be baked in small loaves or in one large one. Whatever
size is chosen line the greased pans with three layers of paper
(bottom and sides) having the top layer well greased. Sprinkle
the bottom with about one third of the reserved nuts. Put the
mixture into the pan making sure that the corners are well filled
and that the top is level and smooth. Sprinkle the remaining
nuts on the top. If made into one large cake steam four hours
and then bake one hour in a very slow oven (250°-275 F.). If
made into small cakes they can be baked without steaming first.
Bake in a slow oven (250° F.) for two hours. Let cool in the
pan, but have it stand on a rack so as to have a circulation of
air underneath as well as on the top and sides.
CAKES
467
Turn out and remove the paper. Cool and store in a cool dry
place tightly covered. A few sound apples placed in the con-
tainer where cake is stored will help keep the cake moist if it
must be kept long, but they must be watched and replaced if
they begin to show decay, or if they become shrivelled.
As there is so much preparation involved, the fruits and nuts
can be gotten ready several days before the cake is to be baked.
Even after the cake is entirely mixed and in the pan or pans
it can stand overnight if kept in a cool place.
CHRISTMAS FRUITCAKE
1 pound butter
1 pound citron, sliced
1 1/2 pounds brown sugar
1 pound dates, sliced
1 1/2 pounds flour
10 eggs, well beaten
2 teaspoons nutmeg
1 cup molasses
1 teaspoon mace
1 cup strong cold coffee
1 teaspoon cloves
Juice and grated rind of
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 oranges
1 teaspoon baking soda
Juice and grated rind of
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 lemon
3 pounds raisins
1 cup tart jelly
2 pounds currants
1/4 pound almonds, sliced
Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Sift dry ingredients
together 3 times and mix with fruit. Add eggs to creamed mix-
ture. Add flour-fruit mixture alternately with next 5 ingredients
and beat thoroughly. Pour into pans lined with greased paper.
Sprinkle almonds on top. Cover cakes with greased paper.
Steam for 2 hours, then bake in slow oven (300°F.) 1 1/2 to 2
hours, removing paper last 1/2 hour to dry surface.
DRIED APRICOT CAKE
1 cup dried apricots
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups water
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
6 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 egg yolks
1/4 cup water
Simmer first 3 ingredients together 30 minutes. Mash and
measure 1/2 cup pulp. Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly,
add yolks and vanilla; beat. Sift dry ingredients together and
add alternately with water and pulp. Bake in a cake pan (8 x 8
inches), lined with waxed paper, at 350°F., 45 minutes.
468
APPLESAUCE SPICE CAKE
No. 1.
1/2 cup butter or other
2 cups sifted cake flour
shortening
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
2 eggs, beaten light
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup chopped nuts
1 cup unsweetened
1 cup chopped raisins
applesauce
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Add eggs
and mix thoroughly. Add nuts and raisins. Sift dry ingredients
together 3 times and add alternately with applesauce to creamed
mixture, beating thoroughly after each addition. Pour into a
greased loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) for
1 hour. If baked in layers, bake only for 25 minutes. Makes
1 loaf (8 X 4 inches) or 2 (9-inch) layers.
No. 2.
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1 egg, beaten
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 cup unsweetened
1 teaspoon allspice
applesauce
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Add egg
and mix thoroughly. Sift dry ingredients together 3 times and
add alternately with applesauce to creamed mixture, beating
thoroughly after each addition. Pour into a cake pan lined with
waxed paper and bake in moderate oven (350°F.) 45 minutes.
Makes 1 cake (8 X 8 X 2 inches). Frost with Caramel Frosting
(page 479).
TRUE SPONGECAKE
1 cup sifted cake flour
5 egg yolks, beaten until
1/4 teaspoon salt
thick and lemon-colored
Grated rind 1/2 lemon
5 egg whites
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 cup sugar
Sift flour and salt together 4 times. Add lemon rind and juice
to beaten yolks and beat until thick and light. Beat egg whites
until stiff, but not dry. Fold in sugar, a small amount at a
time, then add egg yolks. Fold in flour, sifting about 1/4 cup at
a time over surface. Bake in ungreased tube pan in moderate
CAKES
469
oven (350°F.) 1 hour. Remove from oven and invert pan
1 hour before removing cake.
FOR MARTHA WASHINGTON CREAM PIE, bake in 2 cake pans.
Use the filling page 474 and top with whipped cream. When
serving cut in wedges like a pie.
HOT WATER SPONGECAKE
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 tablespoon lemon juice
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 eggs, separated
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons hot water
Proceed as for True Spongecake (page 468), adding water
to egg and sugar mixture before adding dry ingredients.
MERINGUE SPONGECAKE
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 1/4 cups sugar
6 egg yolks, beaten thick
3/4 cup egg whites (6)
1 1/8 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon cream tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Boil water and sugar together to soft-ball stage (238°F.) .
Beat egg whites until stiff, but not dry, pour sirup over whites,
add cream of tartar and beat until cool. Add juice. Fold egg
yolks into sirup mixture. Fold in flour sifted with salt. Bake in
ungreased pan in a 350°F. oven 45 minutes.
ANGEL CAKE
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup egg whites
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
(8 to 10 eggs)
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
Sift 1/4 cup sugar and flour together 4 times. Beat egg whites,
cream of tartar and salt to a stiff foam. Add remaining sugar,
a little at a time, beating it in, preferably with a rotary beater.
Add flavorings. Fold in flour, sifting a little at a time over egg
white and sugar mixture. Pour into a large ungreased tube pan;
cut through batter with a spatula to remove large air bubbles.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 45 to 60 minutes. Remove
from oven; invert pan 1 hour.
47°
ROLLED CAKES
5 eggs
1/2 cup sifted cake flour
2/3 cup sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup jelly or jam, slightly beaten
Combine eggs and sugar and beat only until blended. Place
over hot water and heat until mixture is slightly hot (140°F.).
Remove from heat and beat until mixture holds a limp peak.
Combine salt and flour and fold into egg mixture. Fold in but-
ter a tablespoonful at a time. Blend in vanilla. Pour into a jelly
roll pan (15 X 10 inches) lined with waxed paper. Bake in a
moderate oven (350°F.) 15 to 20 minutes. Turn quickly onto
waxed paper covered with confectioners' sugar. Remove bottom
paper and trim sides. Spread quickly with jelly and roll; or
roll cake and when cold unroll and spread with jelly. Wrap in
waxed paper and cool. Just before serving sprinkle cake with
confectioners' sugar. Makes 1 roll.
LEMON ROLL-Spread cake roll with Lemon Filling (page
476) instead of jelly or jam.
MARSHMALLOW CHOCOLATE ROLL-Spread with Marshmal-
low-Cream Frosting (page 482) and roll. Wrap in cloth to cool.
Unwrap and frost with coating made by adding 1 teaspoon
melted butter to 1 square melted, bitter chocolate.
GRAHAM CRACKER CREAM CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1 cup graham cracker
2 eggs, beaten
crumbs
1 cup sifted cake flour
1 cup milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon almond extract
Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Beat in eggs.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together 3 times, add crumbs
and add alternately with milk and almond extract to creamed
mixture. Pour into 2 (8-inch) cake pans lined with waxed
paper. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 25 to 30 minutes.
Put layers together with Cream Filling (page 464) and frost top
and sides with a butter frosting.
CAKES
471
WHIPPED CREAM CAKE
1 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 eggs, beaten until thick
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
and lemon colored
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
Whip cream until it holds its shape. Add eggs and whip until
light as foam. Add sugar and beat again. Add vanilla. Sift
flour, salt and baking powder together 3 times and add to egg
mixture. Bake in greased layer cake pans in a moderate oven
(350° F.) 25 to 30 minutes. Makes 2 (8-inch) layers. Cool
and spread Seven Minute Icing (page 479) or whipped cream
between the layers and on top.
SOUR CREAM CAKE
2 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons baking
1 cup sugar
powder
1 cup thick sour cream
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups sifted cake flour
Beat eggs very light, add sugar gradually and beat until
fluffy. Add cream and vanilla and beat. Sift dry ingredients
together 3 times and add to egg mixture, beating until smooth.
Bake in a square pan (8-inch) lined with waxed paper, in a
moderate oven (350°F.) about 35 minutes.
PRUNE AND APRICOT UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE
1/4 cup butter
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 egg, beaten
1/2 teaspoon lemon rind
1 cup milk
Stewed apricot halves
2 1/4 cups flour
Stewed prune halves
4 teaspoons baking powder
5 tablespoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cream butter and brown sugar; add lemon rind; spread on
bottom of cake pan 8" by 2". Arrange apricot and prune halves
to form design on top of sugar mixture. Cream shortening, add
sugar slowly, then egg; beat well. Add milk alternately with
flour, baking powder and salt sifted together. Mix thoroughly.
Pour batter carefully over fruit in pan; bake 50 minutes at
350° F. Turn onto serving platter, upside down.
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
473
soft filling should not be used for a cake that is to be kept any
considerable time before it is eaten because the filling will soak
into the cake and make it soggy. Sometimes the shape of a loaf
cake makes it desirable to put the frosting on the bottom crust.
The frosting may extend over the top of a cake only or may
be spread over the sides. A well-made boiled frosting should
be soft, but not soft enough to run. A frosting may be put on
with a very smooth surface, may be left rough, or may be
scored in ridges or designs.
Fillings
APPLE FILLING
2 apples
1 lemon
1 cup sugar
Pare two large, sour apples and grate them into a saucepan;
add the juice and grated rind of the lemon, and the sugar.
Cook for five minutes, stirring constantly. Cool before spread-
ing on cake.
CARAMEL FILLING
1 1/2 cups brown sugar
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon butter
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
2 teaspoons corn-starch
Cook the sugar, corn-starch, milk and butter together in a
double boiler until thick. Remove from the fire and beat
vigorously until the mixture is stiff. Add flavoring. Cool be-
fore spreading on cake.
CHOCOLATE FILLING
No. 1.
1 1/2 squares chocolate
1 egg-yolk
1/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt the chocolate over hot water, in a double boiler; add the
milk, and cook together, stirring until the mixture is thick
and creamy. Add sugar and beaten egg-yolk, stir until smooth
and cook five minutes. Add the butter. Beat well. Remove
from heat and add flavoring. Cool before spreading on cake.
474
No. 2.
1 1/2 squares chocolate
1 cup powdered sugar
1/3 cup cream
1/2 teaspoon butter
1 egg-yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Melt the chocolate over hot water, in a double boiler. Mix
the cream and beaten yolk and add gradually, then the butter.
Stir in the sugar and cook until thick. Remove from fire.
Add flavoring. Cool before spreading on cake.
No. 1.
COCONUT FILLING
1 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup cold water
3 egg-whites
1/2 cup boiling water
1 1/2 cups moist coconut
Soak gelatin in the cold water until soft; then dissolve it in
the boiling water. Add sugar and stir until it is dissolved.
Allow gelatin to cool partly. When it begins to set, beat the
egg-whites until stiff and beat in the gelatin. Fold in the
coconut and spread upon the layers.
No. 2.
1 1/2 cups moist coconut
4 tablespoons confectioners'
2 egg-whites
sugar
Beat the egg-whites stiff and add the sugar and coconut
gradually. Spread the mixture thickly over the cake. If you
like, sprinkle the surface with dry shredded coconut.
MARTHA WASHINGTON FILLING
1 1/2 cups milk
1/4 cup cold water
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup rum, brandy or whisky
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup candied cherries, chopped
3 egg yolks
1/2 cup citron, chopped
2 tablespoons gelatin
1 cup whipped cream
Scald milk. Add sugar and flour to beaten egg yolks. Add to
scalded milk and cook over hot water until eggs are done. Re-
move from heat. Add gelatin which has been soaked in the cold
water. Chill. Add liquor, beat with rotary beater and chill again.
Fold the fruit and cream into the mixture. Pile between layers
of sponge cake. Top with whipped cream.
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
475
CHOCOLATE-Use 2 squares bitter chocolate, melted over hot
water, omit liquor, add 1/8 teaspoon salt, dash cinnamon and
increase sugar to 1 1/2 cups.
COFFEE-Scald milk with two tablespoons ground coffee,
strain, and make same as cream filling, omitting liquor.
ORANGE-Use half orange-juice and half milk and add two
tablespoons grated orange rind to ingredients above, omitting
the liquor. If you like, add one tablespoon lemon-juice.
WHIPPED CREAM FILLING
1/2 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup cold water
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups cream
1/4 cup boiling water
Soak the gelatin in the cold water until softened. Whip the
cream in a pan set in ice-water and sift the sugar over it. Add
the vanilla. Pour the boiling water upon the gelatin and, when
it is dissolved and cooled, strain it over the whipped cream.
Then beat rapidly with a flat whip, turning the pan with the
left hand while beating with the right. Beat until the gelatin
is thoroughly blended with the cream. Set in a cool place.
When the filling is nearly stiff, spread it on the cake layers.
WHIPPED CREAM MOCHA FILLING
1/2 pint cream
1 1/2 tablespoons Mocha
2 tablespoons sugar
extract or strong coffee
Whip the cream in a bowl set in ice-water; add the extract
or coffee and the sugar. Beat well.
If the top of the cake is spread with this filling, three-fourths
cup of chopped nut-meats may be sprinkled over it.
FRUIT FILLING
1/2 pound single or mixed fruit
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Chop the fruit fine and boil in the water, if necessary, until
tender. Add sugar and cook slowly until smooth and thick.
Remove from the heat, add vanilla and cool.
476
MIXTURE FOR UPSIDE-DOWN CAKES
2 tablespoons butter
Fresh or canned fruit
4 tablespoons sugar (white, brown or maple)
In a deep cake pan or heavy skillet, melt 2 tablespoons butter.
Sprinkle 4 tablespoons sugar over bottom of pan and cover with
well-drained sour cherries (or other canned or fresh fruit). .
Pour batter or light yeast dough over this layer and bake at
425° F. for 30 minutes.
FRUIT AND NUT FILLING
1 cup chopped raisins
1 egg-white
1/2 cup chopped nuts
Currant jelly
1/2 cup shredded coconut
Mix the raisins, nuts and coconut and add them to the stiffly
beaten egg-white. Spread the layers of cake with a thin layer
of currant jelly, then with a thick layer of the filling, and put
together.
TUTTI-FRUTTI FILLING
1/4 pound seeded or seedless
Chopped walnuts
raisins
1/4 pound maraschino cherries
1/4 pound figs
1/4 pound maple sugar
1/2 pound dates
1/2 cup water
Put raisins and figs in colander over a kettle of hot water
and allow them to steam for about one hour. Then add dates,
which have been pitted, and steam for fifteen minutes longer.
Remove from steamer, add cherries, and chop all the fruit fine.
Bring the maple sugar and water to a boil and pour it over the
fruit. Mix well. When cool, spread between layers and on
top of the cake and sprinkle with chopped walnuts.
No. 1.
LEMON FILLING
2 tablespoons flour
Juice and grated rind of
3/4 cup cold water
1 lemon
1 egg-yolk
2 teaspoons butter
1/2 cup sugar
Make a smooth paste of the flour and two tablespoons of the
cold water. Cook the rest of the water, the sugar, grated
lemon-rind and butter. When the sugar is dissolved and mix-
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
477
ture boiling, stir in the flour mixture slowly. Cook until clear
and smooth, about fifteen minutes. Add lemon-juice and
beaten egg-yolk and cook two minutes. Cool before spreading
on cake.
No. 2.
3 egg-yolks
Juice and grated rind of
1 cup sugar
2 lemons
1/2 cup butter or other fat
Beat the egg-yolks until thick, add the other ingredients and
cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly, until the mixture
is thick and smooth. Cool before spreading on cake.
MAPLE CREAM FILLING
2 cups maple-sirup
1 tablespoon butter
3/4 cup milk
Salt
Cook sirup, milk, butter, and salt together to the soft-ball
stage (238° F.). Cool and beat until creamy. Use as a filling
for cakes, cream-puffs or tarts.
ORANGE FILLING
2 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon grated orange
1/4 cup granulated sugar
rind
2 eggs beaten
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1/2 cup orange-juice
Combine all ingerdients and mix well. Cook over hot water,
stirring constantly, until well thickened, about ten minutes.
Chill well before spreading on cake.
PRUNE FILLING
1/4 pound prunes
1/2 cup rhubarb-juice or
1/2 tablespoon gelatin
pineapple-juice
4 tablespoons cold water
1/2 cup whipped cream
1/2 cup sugar
Wash the prunes, soak over night in water to cover, and cook
slowly until soft. Remove pits and rub pulp through a coarse
sieve. Soak the gelatin in cold water. When soft, add it to
478
the hot prune pulp and stir until the gelatin dissolves. Add
sugar and fruit-juice. When the filling has cooled, fold in the
whipped cream.
WALNUT FILLING
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup chopped walnut-meats
2 egg-whites
Cook the sugar and water, stirring occasionally until the
sugar is dissolved. Boil without stirring until sirup will form
a thread when dropped from the tip of the spoon (234° F.).
Remove from the fire and cool while beating the egg-whites stiff,
then pour the sirup in a thin stream on the egg-whites, beating
the mixture constantly until it is thick enough to spread. Add
flavoring and nuts. Cool before spreading on cake. Chopped
nut-meats may be sprinkled over the top of the cake.
Frostings
CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING
1) egg-white 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the egg-white stiff and add the sugar gradually; con-
tinue beating until the mixture is smooth and light. Add
flavoring.
EGGLESS CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING
2 tablespoons milk or
1 cup confectioners' sugar
water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Stir the sugar gradually into the milk or water. Add
vanilla. More sugar may be added if the frosting is not thick
enough.
Any fruit-juice or flavored liquid such as strong coffee or
maple-sirup may be used instead of milk or water.
Crushed berries mixed with the sugar give a pleasing frosting.
Two tablespoons cocoa may be mixed with the sugar.
One-half square of melted chocolate may be added.
CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS
479
BOILED FROSTING
1 cup sugar
1, 2, or 3 egg-whites
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cook the sugar and water together, stirring until the sugar
has dissolved. Then cook without stirring. For one egg-white,
cook to 238° F.; for two egg-whites, cook to 244° F.; and for
three egg-whites, cook to 254° F. Remove from the fire and
allow it to cool while you are beating the egg-white stiff, then
pour the sirup in a thin stream over the stiff white, beating the
mixture constantly until thick enough to spread.
ORNAMENTAL OR TWICE-COOKED FROSTING
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon flavoring extract
1/2 cup water
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 egg-whites
Boil sugar and water without stirring until the sirup will
form a soft ball in cold water (234° F.) ; add very slowly to
beaten egg-whites; add flavoring and cream of tartar and beat
until smooth and stiff enough to spread. Put over boiling
water, stirring continually until icing grates slightly on bottom
of bowl.
SEVEN-MINUTE ICING
1 unbeaten egg-white
3 tablespoons cold water
7/8 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon flavoring extract
Place all the ingredients in the top of a double boiler. Place
over boiling water and beat with beater for seven minutes.
Add flavoring, beat, and spread on cake.
CHOCOLATE-Add to above one and one-half ounces melted
unsweetened chocolate two minutes before taking from fire.
COFFEE-Use cold boiled coffee in place of water.
CARAMEL FROSTING
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla or
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 egg-whites
Make a sirup of the sugar and water and cook to the soft-ball
stage (238° F.). Remove from the fire and cool while the
480
egg-whites are beaten, then pour the sirup in a thin stream on
to the stiff whites, beating the mixture constantly until thick
enough to spread. Add the flavoring.
Chopped nuts may be stirred into the frosting just before
spreading.
CHOCOLATE FROSTING
1 square chocolate
1 egg-white
3 tablespoons granulated
8
tablespoons confectioners'
sugar
sugar
1 tablespoon water
1/2 tablespoon vanilla
Cook the chocolate, granulated sugar and water together,
stirring until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Beat the white
of the egg enough to thin it, but not to make it frothy; add
the confectioners' sugar, stir until smooth and light, then add
the chocolate mixture and vanilla. Cool before spreading on
the cake.
COFFEE-BUTTER FROSTING
1 1/2 cups confectioners'
1/3 cup butter
sugar
1 tablespoon strong coffee
1 tablespoon dry cocoa
Cream the butter and add gradually the sugar and cocoa
mixed together. Beat well. Stir in the coffee. Ornamental
designs may be made by forcing the frosting through a pastry-
bag or syringe, using the various tips to produce the desired
designs.
FUDGE FROSTING
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup milk
6 marshmallows or 2 heaping
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
tablespoons marshmallow
2 squares chocolate
whip
1 tablespoon corn sirup
Put first five ingredients into a saucepan and boil to soft ball
stage (234° F.). Remove from fire and stir in the marshmal-
lows just until they dissolve. Cool and add vanilla and beat
until right consistency to spread on cake.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS,
GINGERBREAD AND
SMALL CAKES
Cookies
OOKIE doughs range from very soft to very stiff. What-
ever the degree of stiffness, a cookie dough is always easier
to handle if it is allowed to stand for a time (ten to thirty
minutes) in a cold place before it is rolled. This allows the
moisture to be thoroughly absorbed and hardens the fat, and
both of these conditions tend to prevent the dough from being
sticky even though it is soft.
MATERIALS USED IN Cookies-Butter or any other shorten-
ing preferred may be used in cookies. See Index for materials
used in cake making.
SOFT DOUGHS may be dropped from a spoon on to a baking-
sheet or may be rolled and shaped with a cutter, a knife or a
pastry wheel. They are more difficult to roll out than stiff
doughs, and some practise is necessary to obtain perfect results
in manipulating them in this way.
STIFF DOUGHS are usually rolled out and shaped by cutting.
Sometimes they are made into small balls and flattened by
pressure from the hand, a broad knife or a rolling-pin.
Rolling and Cutting Cookies
IN ROLLING ANY DOUGH, take out on the lightly floured
board only as much as can be handled easily. Flour the rolling-
pin and use only as much pressure as is necessary to spread the
dough out into a sheet of the desired thickness. If the dough
is too soft to be rolled, more flour may be worked in, but the
texture of the finished cookie will be harder in proportion to
the amount of flour added.
DIP THE CUTTER, knife or wheel in flour, and cut the shapes
as close together as possible. Lift the cookies on a broad knife
or spatula and lay them on a greased baking-sheet, allowing a
little space between for possible spreading.
483
484
SAVE ALL THE TRIMMINGS for the last rolling. The last
cookies will not be of the same texture as the first because of
the extra flour which will be worked into the dough in the
process of mixing the trimmings into a mass to be rolled again.
FROSTED DELIGHTS
1/2 cup shortening
1 1/2 cups pastry or cake flour
1 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cream shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Add beat-
en eggs and sifted dry ingredients. Add vanilla and mix well.
Spread the batter onto a baking sheet as thinly as possible and
frost with the following:
Remove lumps from 1 cup brown sugar and fold into 1 stiff-
ly beaten egg white. Spread onto cookie batter, sprinkle with 1
cup chopped nuts and bake in moderate oven (325° F.) 30
minutes. Cut in squares. Makes 24 to 36.
SUGAR COOKIES
2/3 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup milk
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cream the shortening and mix well with the sugar, add the
beaten egg, then the flour, baking-powder and salt sifted to-
gether, alternating with the milk. Roll and cut in any desired
shape. Sprinkle with sugar before baking. Bake in a moderate
oven (350°-375° F., 10-12 minutes).
RICH COOKIES
1/2 cup shortening
3/4 cup flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 egg well beaten
Raisins, nuts or citron
Cream the shortening, add sugar gradually, egg, flour, and
vanilla. Drop from tip of spoon in small portions on buttered
sheet two inches apart. Spread thin with a knife first dipped
in cold water and bake quickly at 375° F. Put four Sultana
raisins on each cookie, almonds blanched and cut in strips, or
citron cut in small pieces.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
485
SAND TARTS
1/2 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1 egg
Nuts or raisins
1 3/4 cups flour
Cream shortening, add sugar slowly, then the unbeaten egg.
Sift in the flour and baking-powder, and add more flour if neces-
sary to make a stiff dough. Roll out very thin. Cut with a
doughnut cutter. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, and, if
desired, decorate with nuts or fruit. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°-375° F., 10-12 minutes).
CARAWAY COOKIES
1/2 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1/4 cup milk
2 cups flour
1 1/2 tablespoons caraway seeds
Cream the shortening with the sugar; add beaten egg. Mix
and sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt, and add alternately
with the milk to the first mixture. Add caraway seeds. Toss
on lightly floured board. Roll out about one-half inch thick
and cut in fancy shapes. Place on greased baking-sheet and
bake in moderate oven (350° F.).
ICEBOX COOKIES
3/4 cup butter
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup other shortening
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups medium brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
4 eggs
5 cups flour
Cream the shortenings together and with the sugar. Add
the well-beaten eggs and beat well. Sift all the dry ingredients
together and add to the first mixture. Pack the dough into a
butter carton, or form into roll. Wrap in wax paper and put
in the coldest part of the refrigerator for several hours. Slice
as thin as possible with a very sharp knife, place on a greased
baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven
(375° F.). A part of the mixture may be baked and the re-
mainder kept in the refrigerator for later use.
486
LEMON WAFERS
1 cup shortening
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
2 cups sugar
Flour
3 eggs
Cream the shortening, add the sugar, the well-beaten eggs,
and the lemon-juice. Stir in only enough flour to make as
soft a dough as can be rolled. Roll very thin and shape with a
cutter. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-375° F., 10-12 min-
utes).
FILLED COOKIES
1 cup sugar
3 cups flour
2/3 cup shortening
3 teaspoons baking-powder
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix ingredients in order given, sifting the flour with the
baking-powder and salt before adding it. Roll thin, cut, and
put in greased pans. Place a teaspoon of filling on each, not
allowing it to spread to the edge, place another cookie on top,
press down the edges, and bake in shallow pans in a quick oven
(400°-425° F., 10-15 minutes).
FILLING-
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup chopped raisins, dates,
1 tablespoon flour
figs, prunes, apricots or
1/2 cup water
marmalade
Mix sugar and flour together, add to the other ingredients,
and cook until thick, stirring constantly.
BROWN SUGAR COOKIES
2 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup melted shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
3 eggs
Flour to mix stiff
1/4 cup milk
Mix ingredients in order given. Add just enough flour to
roll. Cut into shapes as desired. Sprinkle with brown sugar,
and bake in a moderate oven (350°-375° F., 10-12 minutes).
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
487
CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES
2 squares chocolate
1 egg
1/2 cup shortening
2 cups flour
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup sweet milk
1/2 teaspoon soda
Melt the chocolate and add to the melted shortening. Add
sugar, egg and milk, then the soda and flour sifted together.
Drop by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a moderate
oven (375°-400° F., 12-15 minutes). Frost, if desired.
BROWNIES
2 squares chocolate
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 cup flour
1 cup white sugar
1/2 cup nuts
1 egg
Melt chocolate and add it to the melted shortening. Add
sugar, egg, salt and flour and chopped nuts. Pour into greased
baking-pans, and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.)
about twenty minutes. They will look half baked, but mark
off in squares or strips when you take them from the oven, and
they will harden as they cool. Remove from the pans when
cool. Serve with afternoon tea. These resemble fudge in taste
and appearance.
NUT COOKIES
1/4 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 eggs
1 tablespoon milk
1 cup flour
1 cup chopped nuts
1 teaspoon vanilla or almond
Cream shortening and sugar, add eggs well beaten. Sift dry
ingredients together and add alternately with milk. Stir in nuts
and flavoring and mix well. Drop from teaspoon on a greased
baking-sheet and place a nut on top of each. Bake in a moderate
oven (375°-400° F., 12-15 minutes). This makes about three
dozen cookies.
488
CRISP GINGER COOKIES
2/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons ginger
1 cup molasses
1/4 cup vinegar
1 cup shortening
Flour to mold
1 teaspoon soda
Mix sugar, molasses and vinegar. Add melted shortening.
Sift soda and ginger with one cup of flour and add mixture.
Add enough flour to roll very thin. Bake in a moderate oven
(375° F.) watching carefully; as ginger cookies burn rather
easily.
PEANUT COOKIES
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup brown sugar
2 cups flour
2 eggs
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1/4 cup milk
1 cup chopped peanuts
Melt shortening; add brown sugar, eggs and milk. Add sifted
salt, flour and baking-powder, and chopped peanuts. Drop by
teaspoonfuls on greased pans, an inch or two apart. Place a
half peanut on each and bake in a quick oven (400° F.). .
SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES
1 cup shortening
2 teaspoons soda
2/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon ginger
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup sour milk
2 1/2 cups flour
Cream the shortening and the sugar and add the molasses and
milk. Mix well and add dry ingredients mixed and sifted to-
gether. Mix thoroughly. Roll the dough thin and cut in
rounds. Chilling the dough before rolling makes it easier to
handle. Bake in greased sheet in moderate hot oven (375° F.).
GINGER SNAPS
1 cup molasses
3 cups flour
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ginger
Heat the molasses and shortening. Mix and sift the dry in- -
gredients and add to first mixture. Thoroughly chill, toss on
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
489
lightly floured board, and roll out very thin. Cut as desired.
The bowl containing the remaining dough must be kept in a
cool place or it will be necessary to add more flour. Excess
flour will make the cookies hard and unattractive. Put on
greased baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.,
8-10 minutes).
SOUR MILK JUMBLES
1 cup shortening
2 teaspoons baking-powder
2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 cup sour milk
1/2 nutmeg, grated
6 cups flour
Cream the shortening with the sugar and add the eggs, well
beaten. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add them to the
sugar and shortening alternately with the milk. Roll out in
a thick sheet and cut with a doughnut cutter. Bake in a moder-
ate hot oven (375° F.).
RAISIN ROCKS
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon ginger
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups molasses
Flour
1 cup seeded raisins
Put the shortening, sugar, molasses, ginger and salt into a
saucepan together. Stir the mixture until it boils; then boil
it five minutes. Pour into a bowl and stir in flour and soda
sifted together until it is just stiff enough to drop from a spoon.
Add the raisins and drop by spoonfuls on to a greased shallow
pan. Bake the rocks in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.).
MAPLE-SUGAR ROCKS
1 cup shortening
3 eggs
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 1/2 cups maple sugar
1 cup walnuts
2 1/2 cups flour
Melt shortening, add crushed maple sugar, eggs, and cinna-
mon. Mix together and add chopped nuts and flour. Drop
by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a moderate oven
(375°-400° F.).
490
HERMITS
/2 cup shortening
1 tablespoon molasses
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon each of various
2 eggs
desired spices
2 tablespoons milk
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup chopped raisins
Flour
Cream shortening, add sugar gradually. Add eggs, molasses,
milk and raisins. Sift baking-powder and spices with one cup
of flour, and mix all thoroughly. Add enough flour to make
quite a stiff dough, and roll. Bake in a moderate oven (375°
400° F.).
HONEY HERMITS
1 1/2 cups strained honey
1 cup chopped raisins
1/3 cup shortening
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 eggs
1/2, teaspoon cloves
1/2 cup milk
3 1/2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons baking-powder
Mix strained honey and melted shortening. Add eggs, milk,
salt and raisins. Sift cinnamon, cloves, and baking-powder with
the flour. Beat well, and drop on a greased pan. Bake in a
moderate oven (375°-400° F.) until brown.
HONEY GINGERNUTS
1 cup strained honey
1 egg
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon ginger
1 cup melted shortening
1 cup chopped nuts
2 teaspoons baking-powder
Flour
Mix honey, sugar, melted shortening and beaten egg. Add
chopped nuts, then baking-powder and ginger sifted with one
cup of flour. Add more flour to make a batter of the right
consistency to drop from a spoon on to a greased pan. Bake
in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.).
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
491
ROLLED OATS COOKIES
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup molasses
2 cups flour
1 cup shortening
1 cup chopped raisins sprin-
2 eggs
kled with 2 tablespoon<
1/4 cup sweet milk
flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 cups rolled oats
1 teaspoon ground cloves
Mix ingredients in the order given. Melt the shortening be-
fore adding it, and sift the soda and spices with the flour. Drop
by teaspoonfuls on greased pans and bake in a moderate oven
(375°-400° F.).
Doughnuts, Crullers and Sweet Fritters
SWEET MILK-
DOUGHNUTS
2 tablespoons shortening
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1 cup milk
Flour
3 teaspoons baking-powder
Beat the eggs till very light, add the sugar and when foamy
add the melted shortening. Sift the baking-powder, salt and
nutmeg with one cup of flour and stir into first mixture, alter-
nating with the milk. Add the lemon flavoring and just enough
flour to make a soft dough which can be handled. Roll out
three-fourths inch thick on a lightly floured board. A soft
dough makes light, tender doughnuts when cooked. Fry in
deep fat (360°-370° F.) and drain on unglazed paper. If
you have no thermometer test the fat for temperature as di-
rected on page 26.
SOUR MILK-
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking-powder
2 tablespoons sour cream
1/2 teaspoon salt
or shortening
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup sour milk
4 1/2 cups flour (more or less)
1/2 teaspoon soda
Mix the sugar with the cream and add the beaten eggs and
sour milk. Sift the other dry ingredients with one cup of flour
492
and add to the first mixture. Add additional flour to make a
dough just stiff enough to handle. Toss on a floured board, roll
out, and cut. Fry in deep fat (360°-370° F.). If you have
no thermometer, test temperature of fat as directed on page 26.
Drain on unglazed paper. When cold, roll in powdered sugar.
RAISED- (The recipe for raised doughnuts is given on page
114.)
CRULLERS
1/4 cup shortening
3 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
Flour
Cream the shortening. Add sugar; then the well-beaten eggs.
Sift the baking-powder, nutmeg, and salt with one cup of flour
and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add
additional flour to make a dough stiff enough to handle. Toss
on floured board, roll one-half inch thick and cut into strips.
Twist and fry in deep fat 3300-370° F.). If you have no
thermometer, test temperature of fat as directed on page 26.
Drain on unglazed paper and when cold roll in powdered sugar.
This recipe makes about three dozen crullers.
FRITTER BATTER
1 1/2 cups flour
2/3 cup milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
(for sweet fritters only)
1 egg
Sift dry ingredients, add egg, well beaten, and milk. The
batter should be just thick enough to coat the article it is in-
tended to cover. If it is too thin, add more flour; if too thick,
add more liquid.
APPLE FRITTERS
1 cup milk
2 cups flour
2 eggs
1 tablespoon baking-powder
1 teaspoon sugar
Apples
Salt
To the milk add the well-beaten egg-yolks and the sugar,
then the flour mixed and sifted with the baking-powder and
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
493
the salt. Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Add sliced
sour apples, being careful to get the batter all over them. Drop
by spoonfuls into deep fat (360°-370° F.) and fry two to three
minutes. Serve with powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
BANANA FRITTERS
6 bananas
3 tablespoons orange-juice
2 tablespoons sugar
Fritter batter
Peel bananas, cut each in two and split each half. Place the
pieces in a bowl with sugar and orange-juice and let them stand
for one hour. Drain the fruit, dip in batter and fry in deep
fat (360°-370° F.) from two to three minutes. Serve with
powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
PEACH FRITTERS
Peaches
Fritter batter
Powdered sugar
Peel the peaches, split them in two, remove the stones, sprinkle
powdered sugar over them, dip each piece into fritter batter
and fry two to three minutes in deep fat 3300-370° F.).
Serve with powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
RASPBERRY FRITTERS
1 cup flour
2 eggs
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 to 3 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup raspberries
2 tablespoons sugar
Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add sugar,
egg-yolks and water. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg-whites and
the raspberries leaving the fruit as nearly whole as possible.
The amount of water may vary somewhat. The batter should
be thin enough to fold in the fruit, but thick enough to hold
together well; otherwise, the fruit in cooking will soften it
too much.
Drop the fritter mixture from a tablespoon into deep fat
(360°-370° F.) and fry until brown, turning once. Serve
with powdered sugar or foamy sauce.
494
Gingerbread and Small Cakes
GINGERBREAD
SUGAR AND MOLASSES-
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup flour
1/2 cup melted shortening
1 teaspoon ginger
1/2 cup sour milk
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 egg
Nutmeg
Mix ingredients in order given, sifting the soda with the flour
before adding it. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-375° F.)
in a greased shallow pan or in muffin-tins. Care must be taken
to prevent burning.
Gingerbread makes a delicious dessert served with whipped
cream.
SOFT MOLASSES-
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses
1 tablespoon ginger
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 cup sour milk
1 egg
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda
Melt the shortening; add the molasses, vinegar, and beaten
egg. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately with
the milk. Pour into a greased pan and bake thirty to forty
minutes.in a moderate oven (350°-375° F.). Batter should be
just thin enough so that the track left by the spoon in stirring
disappears at once.
HOT WATER-
1/2 cup shortening
1 1/2 teaspoons ginger
1/2 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 cups flour
Melt the shortening in the boiling water. Add molasses. Sift
the dry ingredients together and add them to the mixture. Beat
vigorously. Put in a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven
(350°-375° F.) thirty to forty minutes.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
495
NUT CAKES
2 eggs
2 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon shortening
1 cup flour
1/2 cup chopped nut-meats
Beat the eggs slightly and add the molasses and sugar. Mix
and sift the flour, baking-powder and salt, and stir them into
the first mixture. Add melted shortening and nuts, and half
fill shallow greased molds with the mixture. Place a nut-meat
in the center of each. Bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) for
twenty-five minutes.
TEA CAKES
2
tablespoons melted shorten-
1 cup milk
ing
3 teaspoons baking-powder
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups flour
1 egg
1 cup chopped nuts
Cream the shortening with the sugar; add the beaten egg;
then add the milk alternately with the sifted ingredients. Add
the floured nuts last. Bake in greased muffin-pans in a moderate
oven (375° F.). Split each cake, butter it, and sprinkle with
sugar and cinnamon or with grated maple sugar and chopped
nuts. Serve hot with afternoon tea.
LITTLE CHOCOLATE CAKES
1/4 cup shortening
2 squares melted chocolate
1 cup sugar
1 cup flour
1/2 cup milk
1 teaspoon baking-powder
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream the shortening, add the sugar slowly, then the beaten
egg-yolks. Melt the chocolate and add. Add flour and baking-
powder sifted together, alternating with milk, then add vanilla
and fold in stiffly beaten egg-whites. Bake in greased muffin-
pans in a moderate oven (375° F.).
496
MOCHA TORTE
4 eggs
1/2 cup flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon melted butter
1 teaspoon baking-powder
1 cup ground nuts
1/2 teaspoon salt
Separate the eggs and add sugar to the yolks, beating until
creamy. Beat in the butter and add the flour sifted with the
baking-powder and salt. Add vanilla. Beat the whites of the
eggs, then add the ground nuts, stirring them into the first
mixture. Bake in two layers for fifteen minutes in a moderate
oven (350° F.).
FILLING-
1/2 pint cream
1 tablespoon confectioners'
1 tablespoon essence of coffee
sugar
Beat the cream until it is stiff enough to hold its shape, add
the coffee and sugar and put the filling between and on top
of the layers. Use a pastry tube to make it decorative.
PETITS FOURS
4 eggs
1 cup flour
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder
3 tablespoons cold water
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 tablespoons corn-starch
Flavoring
To the beaten yolks of the eggs, add sugar and cold water.
Sift the corn-starch with the flour, baking-powder and salt.
Add to first mixture. Beat well and add the stiffly beaten whites
of the eggs and any flavoring desired. Bake for one-half hour
in a moderate oven (375° F.) in shallow pans. When cool,
cut in small circles, split, scoop out a little of the crumb from
the center of each and fill cavities with whipped cream, custard,
or any preferred filling. Press together in pairs, dip in melted
fondant, decorate with nuts, glacé fruits, and so forth, and place
each little cake in a paper case.
HALLOWE'EN CAKES
Cover the bottom of individual cake-tins with any good plain
cake batter, place a prepared emblem in the center of each and
cover with batter, filling tins not more than two-thirds full.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
499
MERINGUES AND KISSES
2 egg-whites
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or 1 table-
1/2 to 5/8 cup powdered sugar
spoon lemon-juice
Pinch of salt
Beat the egg-whites stiff, adding the salt. Add two-thirds of
the sugar gradually, beating constantly, and fold the rest care-
fully into the mixture. Heap in rounds or press through a
pastry bag on to a wet board covered with an ungreased paper.
Bake on the board in a very slow oven (250°-300° F.) from
forty to sixty minutes. The kisses should be very light brown
and quite dry. If they adhere to the paper, moisten the other
side of the paper by placing it on a wet cloth, and they will slip
off easily.
The smaller shapes or kisses may be stuck together in pairs
with a little white of egg. The meringues, which are usually
made larger, may be scooped out and filled with ice-cream or
whipped cream. Filled with ice-cream, they are known as
meringues glacées.
COCONUT KISSES
4 egg-whites
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1/2 pound powdered sugar
Moist coconut
Beat the egg-whites stiff, add sugar and beat until light and
white, then add the lemon extract, and enough coconut to make
it as thick as can be easily stirred with a spoon. Drop on greased
paper and bake in a slow oven (250°-300° F.).
KORNETTES
1 egg-white
3/4 cup chopped pop-corn
1/3 cup light brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the white of the egg very stiff and, still beating, mix in
the sugar. Melt the shortening and into this stir the chopped
pop-corn, salt and vanilla. Fold the two mixtures together and
drop by spoonfuls on a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a slow
oven (250°-300° F.).
500
RAISIN NUT DELIGHTS
3 egg-whites
1/2 cup broken pecans
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup seeded raisins
Beat the egg-whites until they are stiff enough to hold their
shape, then beat in the sugar gradually. Fold in the nuts and
raisins and drop from a spoon on to the baking-pan. Bake in
a slow oven (250°-300° F.).
ALMOND-
MACAROONS
1/2 pound sweet almonds
1/2 pound powdered sugar
2 egg-whites
Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste; add the
sugar and stiffly beaten egg-whites. Work the whole together
with the back of a spoon, then roll the mixture in the hands to
form balls about the size of a nutmeg. Lay them on a paper
at least an inch apart, and bake in a slow oven (250°-300° F.)
until light brown.
COCONUT-
1 egg-white
1/3 cup condensed milk
1 1/4 cups moist coconut
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the egg-white until stiff, then fold it into the mixture
of coconut and condensed milk. Add flavoring. Drop by
spoonfuls on a greased baking-sheet and shape into cakes. Bake
in a slow oven (250°-300° F.) until lightly browned.
BROWN SUGAR-
1 egg-white
1 cup chopped salted nuts
1 cup brown sugar
Beat the sugar into the stiffly beaten egg-white, and add the
nuts. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased pan and bake in a slow
oven (250°-300° F.).
NUT OATMEAL-
1 egg
1/3 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 teaspoons melted shortening
2/3 cup rolled oats
Beat egg until very light, add sugar slowly, beating con-
stantly. Add flavoring, oats, salt, nuts and melted shortening.
COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC.
50I
Drop from teaspoon on greased baking-sheet and bake in a slow
oven (350° F.) until browned (about 10 minutes). Remove
from pan while warm. This makes about eighteen macaroons.
LACE CAKES
2 eggs
1 tablespoon butter or other
1/2 cup brown sugar
shortening
1 cup rolled oats
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
Beat the eggs, add the sugar and, when these are well mixed,
add the oats and salt. Melt the shortening and stir into the
mixture. Add vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased bak-
ing-sheet and spread very thin with the back of the spoon.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.) ten to twelve min-
utes.
BUTTERSCOTCH STICKS
1/4 cup butter
1 cup sifted flour
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 teaspoon baking-powder
1/4 cup broken pecan meats
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt butter in a saucepan, add sugar and when well blended
remove from the fire and cool, in the saucepan, until luke-
warm. Add unbeaten egg to mixture and beat well. Mix
flour, salt and baking-powder, and add to the sugar mixture;
then add the nut meats and vanilla. Spread the mixture in a
shallow pan lined with plain paper which has been greased.
Bake 30 minutes in a hot oven (400°-450° F.). While hot,
cut into strips an inch wide and four inches long. This recipe
makes about two dozen.
BRAN COCONUT DROPS
1 cup cooking bran
2 egg-whites
1/2 cup coconut
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 cup sugar
Beat the egg-whites, and add the other ingredients. Drop
from a teaspoon on a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a mod-
erate oven (400° F.) until browned.
506
brown sugar, chocolate or molasses. Lemon extract or lemon- -
juice is good in a white-sugar fudge from which the chocolate
is
omitted.
FUDGE-COVERED DATES
Cut dates in half, lengthwise; remove the pits and lay the
halves at intervals on a greased dish. Make fudge according to
any fudge recipe and drop a teaspoonful on each half date. This
must be done quickly, to avoid letting the fudge harden in the
pan. The hardening may be delayed by standing the pan in a
larger one containing hot water.
PANOCHA
3 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup milk
1 cup nut-meats
2 tablespoons butter
Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan and cook to the soft-
ball stage, or 238° F. Remove from the fire, add butter and
vanilla, and cool without stirring. When it is lukewarm, beat
until it is creamy. Stir in the broken nut-meats. Hickory
nuts, walnuts or pecans are especially nice. Pour into a buttered
pan and when it hardens mark into squares.
MAPLE PRALINES
2 cups sugar
1 cup maple sirup
2/3 cup milk
2 cups pecan-meats
Boil the sugar, milk and maple sirup until the mixture
reaches the soft-ball stage (238° F.). Remove from the fire
and cool. When it is lukewarm, beat until it is smooth and
creamy. Add any kind of broken nut-meats and drop on
buttered paper from the tip of a spoon, making little mounds.
FONDANT
2 cups granulated sugar
2 tablespoons corn sirup or
1 cup water
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Put the sugar, corn sirup and water in a saucepan and heat
slowly. Do not let it begin to boil until the sugar is dissolved.
Wash down the sides of the pan with a fork wrapped in a damp
CANDIES
509
VANILLA-
CARAMELS
2 cups sugar
4 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup corn sirup
1 cup cream or condensed
1/2 cup milk
milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cook the ingredients, except the vanilla; to the stiff-ball
stage, or 246° F. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla and
pour into a buttered pan. When it is cold, turn it out of the
pan and cut it into squares.
CHOCOLATE-Use the same ingredients as for vanilla cara-
mels but reduce the cream or condensed milk to one-half cup
and add three squares of chocolate. Break the chocolate in
small pieces, add to the other ingredients and proceed as for
vanilla caramels.
MOLASSES TAFFY
2 cups molasses
4 tablespoons butter or other
1 cup granulated sugar
fat
3/4 cup water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon soda
Cook the molasses, sugar and water slowly to the hard-ball
stage (260° F.) stirring during the latter part of the cooking
to prevent its burning. Remove from the fire, add the fat,
soda and vanilla and stir enough to mix. Pour into a greased
pan and, when cool enough to handle, pull it until it becomes
light in color. Stretch it into a long rope and cut with scissors
into small pieces.
WHITE TAFFY
2 cups granulated sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons vinegar
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla
1 teaspoon glycerin
extract
Boil the sugar, water, glycerin and vinegar to the hard-ball
stage (260° F.). Add flavoring. Pour on to a greased platter.
When cool enough to handle, pull until very white, stretch into
a long rope, and cut into short pieces.
510
NOUGAT
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup corn sirup
1 1/2 cups nut-meats
1 cup water
1/2 cup candied cherries
4 egg-whites
Boil together half of the sugar, half of the water and half of
the corn sirup to the stiff-ball stage (246°-250° F.). Remove
the sirup from the fire and pour it slowly over the well-beaten
whites and continue beating until it is cool. While beating,
cook the remaining half of the ingredients to the stiff-ball stage.
Remove and add at once to the first mixture, beating while
adding. When cool, add the vanilla, nut-meats and candied
cherries and pour into buttered pans. Smooth over the surface
and let it stand over night before cutting. In the morning cut
and wrap in waxed paper.
BUTTERSCOTCH
1 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon
1/4 cup light corn sirup
extract
1 cup water
Put sugar, sirup and water into a saucepan and set over
direct heat. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then cook without
stirring to the stiff ball stage (250° F.). Add fat and cook to
the medium crack stage (280° F.), for soft butterscotch, or to
the hard crack stage (300° F.) for brittle candy. Remove from
fire, add the flavoring and pour on a greased slab. Mark while
still warm and when cold break into pieces.
MAPLE SCOTCH
1 cup maple sugar
1 teaspoon vinegar
1/2 cup water
4 tablespoons butter
Boil together the maple sugar, water and vinegar to the stiff-
ball stage (246° F.). Then add the butter and cook to the
medium-crack stage (280° F.). Turn into a well-buttered
pan. Mark while still warm, and when cold break into pieces.
CANDIES
511
No. 1.
POP-CORN BALLS
3 quarts popped corn
1 cup water
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup white corn sirup
1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla
Discard all imperfect kernels and put the popped corn into
a large pan. Cook sugar, sirup and water to the medium-crack
stage (280° F.). Add flavoring and salt. Pour over the
corn, stirring with a spoon so that all kernels will be evenly
coated. Shape the corn into balls, lay on waxed paper, and wrap
in waxed paper.
No. 2.
3 quarts popped corn
2/3 cup water
1 cup honey
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Proceed as for No. 1.
MAPLE NUT BRITTLE
I cup light-brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup maple sugar
1 cup broken nut-meats
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
Boil the sugar and water to the stiff-ball stage (246° F.).
Then add the fat and cook to the brittle stage (290°-300° F.).
Add the vanilla and salt and pour over the nut-meats, which
have been placed on a buttered pan. When cold, break into
pieces.
PEANUT BRITTLE
2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 pint chopped peanuts
Put the sugar into an iron frying-pan and heat slowly; stirring
constantly, until the sugar is melted and turns a light brown
color (slightly above 300 F.). Spread the chopped peanuts
in a buttered tin, sprinkle them with the salt, warm the tin
slightly and pour the melted sugar over the peanuts.
512
TURKISH DELIGHT
3 tablespoons gelatin
1/2 cup hot water
2 cups sugar
Grated rind and juice of
1/2 cup cold water
1 lemon
Grated rind and juice of
Red or green coloring
1 orange
Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Put the sugar and hot
water in a saucepan. When it reaches the boiling-point, add
the gelatin and simmer twenty minutes. Add color and the
flavorings; strain into a bread-pan which has been rinsed with
cold water. The mixture should be from one-half to one inch
in depth.
When it is cold, turn it on to a board. Cut into cubes or
other shapes and roll in confectioners' sugar.
If you prefer other flavors, such as peppermint, wintergreen
and clove, omit the fruit juice and rind, add one-half cup of
water, and flavor with a few drops of oil of peppermint, oil
of wintergreen, oil of cloves, etc.
COCONUT CONES
2 cups sugar
3 egg-whites
2/3 cup water
2 cups moist coconut
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Boil the sugar and water together to the soft-ball stage (238°
F.). Add the vanilla and pour it slowly over the stiffly beaten
whites of the eggs beating constantly until light and foamy.
Stir in the coconut and drop on buttered tins by teaspoonfuls.
Shape each confection like a cone. Bake in a slow oven (300°
F.) for about twenty minutes.
MARZIPAN
2 egg-whites
1 cup confectioners' sugar,
1 cup almond paste
more or less
1/2 teaspoon lemon or vanilla
Beat the egg-whites and mix with the almond paste. Add
the flavoring and enough sugar to make the mixture stiff enough
to handle. After it has stood over night, it may be molded into
small shapes of fruits or vegetables such as pears, apples or car-
rots and colored with vegetable colors, or it may be cut into
CANDIES
513
small pieces and dipped in chocolate or other coating, or used
as the center for candied cherries, dates, prunes, etc.
The almond paste may be bought at a confectioner's, or the
almonds may be blanched and pounded. Two and two-thirds
cups shelled almonds make one cup of paste.
STUFFED SPICED PRUNES
1/2 pound prunes
1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 cup corn sirup
5 allspice berries
1/8 cup water
1/8 teaspoon maple flavoring
3 to 6 cloves
Chopped nut-meats
Soak the prunes over night, after washing them thoroughly.
Drain off the water; add the sugar, sirup, water and spices and
simmer slowly until the sirup is all absorbed by the prunes.
Cut a slit along one side of each prune, slip out the stone and
fill the cavities with chopped nut-meats moistened with a little
sirup or with cream. Roll in confectioners' sugar.
TUTTI-FRUTTI CANDY
1 pound raisins
1 pound figs
3/4 pound walnut-meats
1/2 pound prunes
1 pound dates
Confectioners' sugar
Soak the prunes over night. Steam until they are soft and
remove stones. Wash the figs, and steam them twenty min-
utes. Wash the dates and remove the stones. Put the fruit
and nuts through a food-chopper. Put confectioners' sugar on
the board and with the hands work the fruit and nuts until
well blended. Roll to about one-quarter inch thick, using the
sugar to dredge the board and rolling-pin. Cut in any desired
shape, roll in sugar, pack in layers in a tin box, using waxed
paper between the layers.
HOLIDAY COCONUT BALLS
1/3 cup corn sirup
1/4 cup currants
1/4 teaspoon maple
1/2 cup raisins
flavoring
1 cup moist coconut
Stir the ingredients together to make a stiff loaf. Pack in a
small cake-tin. Chill in the refrigerator and roll into small
balls. Dust with confectioners' sugar.
APRICOT OR PRUNE WHIP
1 1/2 cups sweetened apricot
1/8 teaspoon salt
or prune pulp
1/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice
3 egg whites, stiffly beaten
Mix pulp, lemon juice and salt together. Beat sugar into egg
whites, fold in fruit mixture and serve garnished with chopped
nuts. If desired this mixture may be piled lightly into a buttered
baking dish and baked in a slow oven (275° F.) 30.to 45
minutes.
STEAMED FIGS
18 pulled figs
3 teaspoons confectioners'
2 tablespoons water
sugar
1 orange
3/4 cup cream
Wash the figs and cut out the stem end. Soak several hours,
or overnight. Cook in a double boiler slowly until tender.
Arrange the hot figs in individual dessert dishes around a central
small mound of orange portions which have been skinned and
sprinkled with sugar. Border with sweetened whipped cream
slightly flavored with orange juice.
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
527
CARAMEL PUDDING
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup flour
2 cups milk
2 eggs
Mix sugar and one and one-half cups of milk. Scald in double
boiler until sugar is dissolved. Mix flour with beaten egg-yolks
and the remaining half cup of milk and add to the hot milk,
stirring constantly until it thickens. Remove from fire and fold
in stiffly beaten egg-whites. Chill and serve with whipped
cream.
ORANGE FOOL
6 oranges
Sugar
3 eggs
Nutmeg
2 cups cream
Cinnamon
Squeeze and strain the juice from the oranges. Beat the eggs
and add to them the cream and the orange-juice. Sweeten to
taste. Add a sprinkle of grated nutmeg and powdered cinna-
mon, and cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until the
mixture coats the spoon. Pour into glass dishes and chill
thoroughly before serving.
PLAIN BAKED CUSTARD
2 cups scalded milk
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
4 tablespoons sugar
Scald the milk. Mix sugar, eggs, salt and flavoring and com-
bine with scalded milk. Pour into custard cups or baking-dish
set in pan of hot water and poach in a slow oven (300° F.)
until firm. A knife blade run into the center of the custard
will come out clean.
VARIATIONS OF BAKED CUSTARD
CARAMEL.
No. 1-Caramelize one-fourth cup of sugar and add to two
cups of scalded milk. Use as the liquid in a plain baked custard.
No. 2-Caramelize one-half cup of sugar. Pour into a mold
or pour a little into each of six custard cups. Before it hardens,
move the mold about so that the caramel will coat the sides.
When the caramel is hard, fill the molds with plain baked
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
53I
the crystallized ginger and the figs. Place all in a double boiler
and simmer slowly all day. The entire mass must form a soft
pulp so that the ingredients will scarcely be recognized. Soften
the gelatin in the cold water and stir into the mixture while
hot. Turn into high-stemmed glasses and serve ice cold with
whipped cream.
GRAPEFRUIT A LA ST. PATRICK
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
3/4 cup sugar
granulated gelatin
1 cup ice-water
1/2 cup cold water
2 cups grapefruit pulp and
1/2 cup boiling water
juice
Fresh mint
Maraschino cherries
Cut the grapefruit in half, crosswise, and scoop out the pulp
being careful not to cut the skins. Drop the shells into cold
water until needed. Simmer a few sprigs of fresh mint in the
boiling water until the flavor is extracted. Follow the standard
directions for making jelly. When jelly is firm, cut it into
cubes, pile the cubes in the grapefruit shells and garnish with
sprigs of mint and cherries.
MOLDED LIME FRUIT SALAD
1 package lime gelatin
1/2 cup canned white cherries
1 cup boiling water
1/4 cup red seeded grapes, cut
1 cup cold water
in fancy shapes
4 slices canned pineapple
4 halved pears
Dissolve gelatin in boiling water and add cold water. Set
aside to cool slightly. Add fruit and pour into mold which has
been rinsed out with cold water. Refrigerate to set.
GARNISH-Mix cream cheese with chopped nuts and rais-
ins; stuff pears, place in individual gelatin molds, fill with lime
gelatin and allow to congeal. Use as garnish around lime mold,
topped with pimiento cream cheese flower. Place decorated pine-
apple slices between pears. Serve with creamy eggless mayon-
naise. See page 450.
Decorating Jelly
Have the mold thoroughly chilled. Pour in a layer of jelly
about one-half inch deep. Chill. When firm, arrange a design
of fruit or nuts or both, dropping a few drops of jelly on each
532
piece to hold the design while the jelly hardens. When the jelly
holding the design in place has congealed, add enough jelly to
cover the design and let this harden. A single design may serve
or alternate layers of fruit and jelly may be arranged in this
way. Each layer must congeal before the next is added.
REFRIGERATOR CHEESE CAKE
1/2 cup melted butter
3 eggs, separated
3/4 cup sugar
2 cups cream cheese
2 cups fine zwieback
3 tablespoons lemon juice
crumbs
1 tablespoon grated
2 teaspoons cinnamon
lemon rind
2 tablespoons gelatin
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup cold water
1/2 cup whipping cream
Blend butter, 1/4 cup sugar, crumbs and cinnamon. Press 3/4
of this mixture on the bottom of a 9-inch spring form pan.
Soak gelatin in 1/2 cup cold water for 5 minutes. Cook egg-
yolks, remaining sugar (1/2 cup) and water (1/2 cup) in a
double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture coats a metal
spoon. Add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Add gradually to
cream cheese, add lemon juice, rind and salt, beat thoroughly.
Cool, when beginning to congeal, beat several minutes with
an egg beater. Whip cream and fold in with stiffly beaten egg-
whites, blend thoroughly. Pour onto crumbs. Sprinkle remain-
ing crumbs over top. Chill until firm. Serves 10 to 12.
For variety use crumbs made from graham crackers, vanilla
wafers, gingersnaps, chocolate cookies, browned dried bread
crumbs, crushed cornflakes or other suitably prepared breakfast
foods in place of zwieback.
GELATIN BLANC MANGE
1 pint milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon water
1 1/2 teaspoons granulated
gelatin
Heat the milk in the top of a double boiler. Add the gelatin
softened in the cold water. Stir constantly, adding the sugar
a little at a time. Cook over hot water for fifteen minutes
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
533
stirring frequently. Strain into molds that have been dipped
in cold water and chill. Serve with cream.
CHOCOLATE-Dissolve one square bitter chocolate, add the
milk and sugar, using one-third cup sugar, before adding the
gelatin.
CHOCOLATE CREAM
6 tablespoons cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup sugar
1 pint cream
3 tablespoons water
1 egg
Mix cocoa, sugar and water, and cook over the fire, stirring
until thick and smooth. Cool slightly and pour over stiffly
whipped cream, and beat thoroughly with a spoon. Add egg
and again beat well. Chill in refrigerator, allowing an hour
and a half or two hours for a mechanical refrigerator and longer
for an ice-cooled refrigerator.
No. 1.
VELVET CREAM
1/2 ounce (1 tablespoon)
4 tablespoons powdered
granulated gelatin
sugar
1/4 cup cold water
1 pint cream
1/4 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Follow standard directions for making the jelly. As soon as
it begins to congeal, add the cream. Flavor with vanilla. Turn
into a mold and place on ice to harden. Serve with maple
sauce.
No. 2-Use same ingredients as for preceding recipe. Whip
the cream and fold into it the dissolved gelatin and sugar mix-
ture. Mold.
SPANISH CREAM
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
1/4 teaspoon salt
granulated gelatin
2 eggs
1/2 cup cold water
2 1/4 cups cold milk
1/2 cup hot milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup sugar
Make a custard of the egg-yolks, sugar and hot milk. Add
the softened gelatin. Proceed as for standard sponge mixtures.
Mold, chill and serve with whipped cream.
534
PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
1/2 cup sugar
granulated gelatin
Salt
1/2 cup cold water
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 pint scalded milk
1 pint heavy cream
4 egg-yolks
Soak the gelatin in cold water until soft. Make a soft custard
of the milk, egg-yolks, sugar and flavoring. Stir the softened
gelatin into the hot custard. When the gelatin has dissolved,
strain and cool. Whip the cream and fold it in as the mixture
congeals.
RICE BAVARIAN
1 1/2 pints milk
1 ounce (2 tablespoons)
Lemon-peel
granulated gelatin
1/2 cup rice
1/2 cup cold water
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup sugar
Strawberries
1 teaspoon flavoring
Put the milk and a few thin cuts of lemon-peel into a double
boiler. When it is hot, stir in the well-washed rice and salt.
Cook until the rice is perfectly tender. The milk should be
nearly absorbed, leaving the rice very moist. Add to the hot
cooked rice the flavoring, the sugar and the gelatin, which has
been soaked in the cold water, and mix carefully. When the
mixture is beginning to set, fold in the cream, whipped stiff.
Pour into a mold and chill. Serve with sweetened crushed
strawberries. The white mold with red sauce makes a charming
combination.
MONT BLANC
1 pound large chestnuts
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Whipped cream
Put the chestnuts into the oven for a moment, until the shell
and inner skin can be easily removed. Boil the skinned chest-
nuts in water with the salt and three tablespoons of the sugar,
until they are very tender. Add one-half cup sugar to the
water and chestnuts and let stand until thoroughly cold. Re-
move chestnuts from this sirup and run them through a potato-
ricer on to a platter, mounding it high. Save a few of the finest
whole pieces to decorate the dish. Top the mound with
a
CUSTARDS, GELATIN, ETC.
535
spoonful of sweetened whipped cream, and put a border of
whipped cream around the edge of the dish, dotting it with the
whole nuts here and there.
MACAROON BISQUE
1 cup heavy cream
18 macaroons
Powdered sugar
6 maraschino cherries
Vanilla
Whip a cup of cream until stiff, sweeten with powdered
sugar and flavor lightly with vanilla. Stir in six macaroons
broken in small pieces, but not powdered. Pile in sherbet
glasses with a border of the whole macaroons and decorate with
marshmallows or maraschino cherries. This is an excellent
emergency dessert.
PINEAPPLE AMBROSIA
1 fresh pineapple or
1 cup heavy cream
1 can crushed pineapple
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 pound marshmallows
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
Shred the pineapple with a fork. Cut the marshmallows into
small pieces, using a pair of scissors. Mix the pineapple and
marshmallows and let stand on ice until thoroughly chilled.
Just before serving, whip the cream and add the sugar to it.
Add lemon-juice to the pineapple mixture and then fold in
the whipped cream. Serve immediately in individual glasses
or in a large dessert dish.
FRUIT FLUFF
1 cup powdered sugar
4 cups sliced peaches or
1 cup thick cream
apple sauce or berries
2 egg-whites
Add half the sugar to the cream, stir until the sugar is dis-
solved, and then add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Place
the sliced peaches in a dish, sprinkle them with the remainder
of the sugar, pour on the cream mixture, and serve at once.
The success of this depends upon its being thoroughly chilled
when served. The cream, egg-whites and fruit should be
chilled for at least two hours before the dish is to be prepared,
and the finished dessert should be kept in the refrigerator until
needed.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
at which a pudding is served depends some-
nature of the pudding. However, soufflés,
must be served hot because they begin to fall as soon as they are
taken from the oven; and certain others, such as the steamed
puddings and baked batters or doughs, become soggy when cold.
Some puddings may be chilled almost to the point of freez-
ing, and for these the mechanical refrigerator is very satisfac-
tory. Use the ring mold for both hot and cold puddings, unmold
on the serving plate and serve with the bowl of sauce or cream
in the center. See page 344.
Puddings that May be Served Either Hot or Cold
BREAD PUDDING
2 cups stale bread
2 eggs
1 quart milk
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup raisins if desired
Soak the bread in the milk until it is very soft, then mash
it fine. Heat together until nearly boiling. Beat the eggs until
light and add to them the sugar, salt and vanilla. When well
mixed, stir this into the bread and milk, pour the whole into
an earthenware baking-dish, set in a pan of water, and bake
in a slow oven (250°-350° F.).
CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING-Melt two squares of chocolate
over hot water and add this to the soaked bread and milk.
COCONUT PUDDING
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup moist coconut
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups milk
1 tablespoon butter or other
1 egg
fat
Soak the bread and coconut in the milk until soft, then mash
and add the sugar, salt and melted fat. Beat the white and
539
540
yolk of the egg separately; add the yolk to the mixture, then
fold in the white. Pour into a greased baking-dish, set in a
pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven (250°-300° F.).
SPICE PUDDING
1 cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups milk
1 teaspoon melted butter or
1 1/2 cups fresh bread-crumbs
other fat
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
Seed the raisins and cut them in half. Beat the egg light,
add the sugar and then the milk and pour the whole over the
crumbs. Add the spice, fat, salt and raisins, stir well, pour into
a baking-dish, set. in a pan of water, and bake until firm in a
slow oven (250°-350° F.). Serve hot or cold, with any de-
sired sauce.
QUEEN OF PUDDINGS
2 cups stale bread-crumbs
Currant jelly or plum jam
1 quart scalded milk
2 tablespoons sugar for
3 eggs
meringue
1/2 cup sugar
Soak the crumbs in the hot milk until soft; then add the egg-
yolks mixed with the sugar, pour into a baking-dish set in a
pan of water, and bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) about
an hour, or until custard is set. When cool, spread a thick layer
of
the jelly or jam over the top. Beat the egg-whites until stiff,
add the sugar gradually and beat until stiff, spread this meringue
on top of the jam and place in the oven until a delicate brown.
Serve hot or cold, with cream.
ORANGE AND RICE
Pare oranges, cut in half crosswise and remove the core. Cook
the halves, until they are tender but not broken, in a sirup made
from equal parts of sugar and water, to which a little lemon-
juice has been added.
Place around a mound of boiled rice and pour the sirup over
the whole. Serve with plain or whipped cream, or a custard
sauce. Serve hot or cold.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
54I
CREAMY RICE PUDDING
3 tablespoons rice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon or
1 quart milk
nutmeg
Wash the rice thoroughly, add the other ingredients and pour
into a greased baking-dish. Bake from one and one-half to two
hours in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) stirring several times.
The mixture should not boil.
This is the old-fashioned creamy pudding which has such a
delicious flavor because of the long slow cooking. One-half cup
of raisins may be added, if desired. Serve hot or cold.
APPLE OR OTHER FRUIT TAPIOCA
1 cup any fresh fruit, such as
has been soaked but not
apples, peaches, apricots,
cooked
sour cherries and cran-
3/4 cup granulated tapioca
berries or
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup any dried fruit which
3 cups cold water
Cook the tapioca and water in a double boiler until trans-
parent. Pare and core the apples or prepare the other fruit,
place in a baking-dish, sprinkle with sugar, pour over the sweet-
ened fruit the tapioca, cover and bake in a slow oven (250°-
350° F.) until the apples or other fruit are perfectly tender.
For the last ten minutes, remove the cover so that the surface
of the pudding may brown slightly. Serve hot or cold, with
cream.
CREAM TAPIOCA
1 1/2 tablespoons granulated
2 eggs
tapioca
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups scalded milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup sugar
Add the tapioca to the milk and cook in a double boiler until
the tapioca is transparent. Add half the sugar to the milk and
half to the salt and the egg-yolks, slightly beaten. Pour the
hot mixture slowly over the egg mixture; return to the double
boiler and cook until it thickens. Remove from the heat and
add the stiffly beaten egg-whites and the flavoring. Turn into
the serving dish and serve hot or cold.
542
WITH FRUIT-Allow the cream tapioca to cool and turn it
over sliced oranges or other cut fruit. Chill and serve.
SCALLOPED PEACHES
1 teaspoon butter or other fat
1/4 cup brown sugar
1 cup peaches
1/4 cup bread-crumbs or cake-
1 quart apples
crumbs
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup water
Grease a baking-dish with the fat. Chop the peaches and put
half of them in the bottom of the dish. Pare and quarter the
apples and lay half of them over the peaches. Sprinkle with
salt, add the other half of the peaches, and then the apples, and
sprinkle again with salt. Scatter the sugar over the top, then
the crumbs, then pour the water over all. Cover the dish and
bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) from forty-five to sixty
minutes, removing the cover after thirty minutes. Serve hot
or cold, with or without whipped cream or marshmallows.
Puddings That Should Be Served Hot
FRUIT.
SOUFFLES
1 cup fruit pulp
3 egg-whites
Sugar
Salt
Any kind of fruit, either fresh or preserved, may be used.
When canned fruit is used, drain from sirup. Rub the fruit
pulp through a sieve, add a pinch of salt, sweeten if necessary,
and heat. Fold the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs into the
hot fruit pulp. Fill a greased baking-dish or small molds three-
fourths full, set in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate
oven (375° F.) until firm. Serve at once with whipped cream
or a soft custard.
VANILLA.
1 cup scalded milk
1/3 cup sugar
4 tablespoons flour
3 eggs
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Make a sauce of the milk, flour, fat and sugar. Add the
beaten egg-yolks and flavoring. Fold in the beaten egg-whites,
pour into a greased baking-dish, set this in hot water, and bake
in a moderate oven (375° F.) until the egg-white is set. Serve
at once with lemon sauce or cream.
544
COTTAGE PUDDING
1 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup milk
3 teaspoons baking-powder
1 egg
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
Sift the flour with the baking-powder. Cream the shorten-
ing and add the sugar and salt and the egg, well beaten. Then
add the milk and flour alternately. Pour into a greased pan
and bake in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.) 35 to 45 minutes.
BLUEBERRY PUDDING
Add one cup blueberries to cottage pudding batter and bake
in muffin tins at 400' F.
FRUIT BATTER PUDDING
Place a thick layer of fruit in the bottom of a greased bak-
ing-dish and pour custard soufflé or cottage pudding batter
over it. Bake in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.) about thirty
minutes. Any fresh or canned fruit that is not too juicy may
be used, or dried fruit that has been soaked. Apricots, peaches
and blackberries are particularly delicious.
BROWN BETTY
This pudding is usually made with apples, but almost any
other fruit may be used instead of or in combination with them.
Peaches, apricots and rhubarb are especially good. Serve hot
with cream or with any preferred sauce, or without a sauce.
No. 1.
1/4 cup melted butter
1/2 cup fruit-juice or water
1 pint bread-crumbs
1/2 cup sugar or molasses
1 pint sliced apples or other
Juice and grated rind of a
fruit
lemon or orange, if desired
Cinnamon or other spices
Arrange layers of buttered crumbs and thin sliced apples in
a pudding dish. Sprinkle each layer of fruit with sugar and
a little cinnamon or other spices. Finish with a layer of crumbs
and pour fruit-juice or mixed molasses and water over the top.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
545
Cover and bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) for thirty
minutes, then remove the cover and bake forty-five minutes
longer.
No. 2.
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 cup water
3 1/2 cups chopped apples or
1 apple, washed, cored and
other fruit
sliced to form rings
1/2 cup honey
Mix the crumbs and chopped apples or other fruit and place
in a deep baking-dish. Bring the honey and water to a boil
and pour over the fruit and bread mixture. Sprinkle a few
dry crumbs on top and lay the apple rings around the edge.
Bake in a slow oven (250°-350° F.) as directed for No. 1.
APPLE CHARLOTTE
Slices of stale bread, 1/4 inch
Stewed tart apples, mashed
thick
and seasoned with sugar
Melted butter
and nutmeg
Chopped almonds, if desired
Line a greased mold with the bread slices, dipped into or
brushed with the melted butter. The slices should fit close
together and may even overlap. Fill the center with the stewed
apples and add chopped almonds if you wish. Cover the top
with slices of the bread, buttered, and bake in a hot oven
(400° F.) for thirty minutes. The bread should have the ap-
pearance of being sautéd and should be well browned. Turn
out on a platter and serve hot.
PEACH PUDDING
6 sliced peaches, fresh or
2 cups milk
canned, or 1/2 cup dried
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
peaches, soaked and stewed
3 eggs
1/4 cup sugar
Stale bread
1/2 teaspoon salt
Add the sugar, salt and vanilla to the milk and stir in the
eggs, well-beaten. Dip slices of stale bread into the mixture
and line a quart baking-dish with it. Arrange layers of bread
and sliced peaches to fill the dish. Pour any remaining liquid
546
over the top. Set dish in a pan of hot water and bake in a
slow oven (325°-350° F.) until firm (about 30 minutes).
Serve hot with any sauce.
ORANGE AND MACAROON PUDDING
1/3 pound almond macaroons
1/2 cup sugar
1 pint milk
2 oranges
4 eggs
Soak the macaroons in the milk. Beat the eggs and add to
them the sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Stir the
mixture carefully into the macaroons and milk and add the
juice of the oranges. Pour into a greased mold and set on a
trivet in a kettle of boiling water. Simmer steadily for an hour.
Serve hot with orange sauce.
NEW ENGLAND PANDOWDY
2 cups tart apples, pared and
2 tablespoons water
cored, or other fruit
Nutmeg or cinnamon
Sugar
Baking-powder crust
Fill a greased baking-dish half full of the fruit, sprinkle
with sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg, add the water to make
a little juice and cover with a baking-powder biscuit crust.
Bake in a hot oven (400°-450° F.) until the crust is thoroughly
baked and the fruit tender. If the crust becomes too brown
before it is cooked through, reduce the heat slightly after the
first twenty minutes. A thick crust of this kind is more easily
baked if a small opening is left in the middle. With a rolled
crust a piece may be cut out with a tiny cookie cutter. If the
crust is dropped from the spoon it may be placed around the
edge of the dish so that there is a small opening in the center.
APPLE RICE PUDDING
1 cup rice
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
2 eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
3 large apples
1/2 cup raisins
1/4 cup butter
Wash the rice and boil in salted water until soft. Drain.
Add the egg-yolks, sugar, raisins, cinnamon and salt. Cut the
apples in very small pieces and add to the rice. Beat the egg-
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
547
whites stiff and fold into the mixture. Melt the fat in a baking-
dish and stir half of it into the pudding mixture, spreading the
rest over the inside of the dish. Pour the mixture into the bak-
ing-dish and bake in a moderate oven (375°-400° F.) about
forty minutes. Serve hot.
No. 1.
INDIAN PUDDING
1 quart milk
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/3 cup corn-meal
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 egg
Place the milk in a double boiler and when it is scalding hot
add the corn-meal, moistened with cold water, and stir con-
stantly to avoid lumps. Cook for twenty minutes. Turn into
a pudding-dish and stir in the other ingredients adding the
beaten egg last. Bake two to three hours in a slow oven (250°-
350° F.) and serve hot with hard sauce or any preferred sauce.
One-half cup dates or figs may be used instead of the raisins.
No. 2.
2/3 cup corn-meal
2 eggs
1 quart hot milk
1 tablespoon shortening
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
2 cups chopped apples
Slowly add the meal, moistened with cold water, to the hot
milk, stirring constantly, and cook to a thick mush. Add the
other ingredients and mix well. Turn into a greased baking-
dish and bake in a slow oven (250°-350 F.) for two hours
and a half. Serve hot with any sauce desired.
OLD-FASHIIONED STRAWBERRY OR OTHER
FRUIT SHORTCAKE
2 cups flour
1/3 cup shortening
4 teaspoons baking-powder
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
Butter
1 tablespoon sugar
Strawberries or other fruit
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and work in the shortening
with the fingers or a knife. Gradually add enough milk to
make a soft dough, mixing with a knife. Toss the dough on
to a floured board and tap and roll to one-half inch thickness.
548
Bake in sheets for a large shortcake or cut with a biscuit cutter
or bake in muffin tins for individual shortcakes. Bake in
a
very hot oven (450°-460° F.) twelve to fifteen minutes. When
done, split into two parts, butter and put crushed sweetened
fruit between the layers and on top. Serve hot with cream.
Any fresh berries, peaches, oranges, bananas, or stewed fruits,
fresh or dried, may be used for shortcake.
FRUIT DUMPLINGS
Make a baking-powder biscuit dough, adding a little more
shortening than when making biscuit. Roll one-fourth inch
thick and cut into five-inch squares. Place a mound of fruit,
pared, cored, or whole, in the center of each square. If large
fruit is used, it should first be cooked five or ten minutes.
Sprinkle the fruit with sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg. Moisten
the edges of the dough with water or cold milk and fold so
that the corners will meet in the center. Press the edges lightly
together.
The tops may be brushed with beaten egg, melted fat or
milk, and sprinkled with sugar. Place dumplings in a greased
pan with a small amount of boiling water and bake in a very
hot oven (450° F.) until crust and fruit are cooked. Serve
with cream or a sauce.
ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING
1 pound chopped suet
2 cups crumbs
2 pounds raisins
1 teaspoon mixed spices
1 pound currants
2 cups brown sugar
1 pound mixed peel
8 eggs
2 cups flour
Mix the suet, the fruit and the chopped peel and dredge with
some of the flour. Mix together the remaining flour, crumbs,
spices and sugar, and add the well-beaten eggs. Stir the fruit
and suet into this mixture and mix the whole thoroughly. Put
into greased molds or into pudding cloths. Drop into a kettle
of boiling water and boil from five to seven hours, according
to the size of the pudding. Serve with hard sauce or any desired
liquid sauce.
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
549
Steamed Puddings
APPLE, OR OTHER FRUIT ROLY-POLY
Make a baking-powder biscuit dough and roll it into a
sheet about one-fourth of an inch thick. Spread it thickly
with sliced apples, and sprinkle over them sugar and cinnamon.
Roll up the dough as for jelly roll, pressing the overlapping parts
of the dough well to the body of the pudding and also press the
ends well to prevent the escape of the juices. Roll and tie in a
cloth, leaving room for the pudding to expand, place on a plate,
cover carefully and set in a steamer over a kettle of hot water
and steam one and one-half hours. Serve hot with apple sauce
or any other sauce desired.
This may be baked if apples that cook quickly are used.
Cherries, cranberries or other fruit may be used instead of
apples.
CARROT PUDDING
1 1/2 cups crumbs
1/2 cup chopped dates or
1 tablespoon shortening or 1/2
prunes
cup fine chopped suet
1/2 cup raisins
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup chopped figs
1/2 cup grated carrots
1/2 cup ground nuts
1 teaspoon baking-powder
1/2 lemon
1 cup molasses
Brown the crumbs and mix them with the fat. Salt the car-
rots, which have been grated or put through the meat-grinder,
and add them to the crumbs. Next add the molasses, the fruit,
nuts, lemon-juice and grated rind. Mix all well together and
stir in the baking-powder. Turn into a well-greased mold and
steam for four or five hours. Serve with a raisin sauce.
FRUIT PUDDING
3 1/2 cups mixed fruit and juice
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup shortening
4 teaspoons baking-powder
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
2 eggs
Cream, sherry wine
Place fruit in deep baking dish, cover and boil. Cream the
shortening and sugar, add the beaten eggs and beat well. Sift
together the flour and baking-powder and add to the first
mixture alternately with the milk. Add flavoring. Mix to
smooth batter and pour over boiling fruit mixture. Cook 40
550
minutes in moderate oven (350° F.). Turn out on hot platter,
allowing fruit sirup to drip over pudding. Serve with whipped
cream flavored with sherry wine.
STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING
2 cups flour
1/2 cup hot mashed potatoes
4 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 squares chocolate
1 cup corn sirup
3 tablespoons shortening
1/2 cup water
Mix and sift the flour, baking-powder and salt. Mix the
sirup with the water and add to the flour mixture. Stir in the
mashed potatoes and the beaten egg. Add the chocolate, melted
over hot water, and the melted shortening. Mix well, pour into
greased individual molds and steam two hours. Serve with any
desired sauce.
STEAMED DATE PUDDING
1 pound dates
1 egg
1/2 pound beef suet
1/2 cup milk
3 cups bread-crumbs
4 tablespoons flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
Chop the dates and suet very fine. Mix the suet with the
bread-crumbs. Add the dates and the sugar. Stir in the egg,
add milk, and flour sifted with the baking-powder. Put in a
greased mold and steam for three hours. Serve with any de-
sired sauce.
No. 1. STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING
1/2 cup ground cracklings
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses
1 cup seeded raisins
1 cup sour milk
2 tablespoons white flour
2 cups graham flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup corn-meal
1/2 teaspoon each, mace,
4 teaspoons baking-powder
cloves, allspice, ginger
1/2 teaspoon soda
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, excepting the white flour.
Add molasses and milk to cracklings. Combine mixtures. Mix
white flour and raisins and add to mixture. Turn into greased
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
55I
mold. Cover and steam three hours. Serve with caramel or
lemon sauce.
No. 2.
1 cup graham flour
1 cup molasses
1 cup white flour
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
3/4 teaspoon soda
1 cup raisins
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, keeping out one-half cup
of flour to sift over the raisins. Add the molasses, milk and
beaten egg. Mix well, then add the raisins which have been
dredged with flour. Pour into greased molds and steam two
and one-half hours. Serve with any sauce desired.
STEAMED MARMALADE PUDDING
1 cup flour
4 eggs
1/2 cup shortening
4 tablespoons marmalade
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking-powder
Beat the shortening and sugar, add the flour and baking-
powder, sifted together, and the eggs, well beaten. Mix well.
Spread the marmalade in the bottom of a mold, pour the batter
on top, cover the mold and steam for one and one-half hours.
STEAMED PEACH PUDDING
3 cups peaches
4 teaspoons baking-powder
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
To be successful with this kind of pudding, the cook must
see that the water is boiling violently when the pudding is
placed over it and must not allow it to fall below the boiling-
point at any time while the pudding is cooking.
Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder together, rub in the
shortening and add the milk. The result will be a dough too
soft to roll out. Peel and stone the peaches and cut them into
rather thick slices. Place the sliced fruit in a greased pudding-
dish, spread the dough over the fruit and set the dish in a
steamer over a kettle of rapidly boiling water, covering the
steamer tightly. Steam for one hour. Turn the pudding out
without breaking. This brings the peaches uppermost, when
the pudding is sent to the table. Serve with hard sauce or any
liquid sauce.
552
STEAMED SUET PUDDING
3 cups sifted flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup suet
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 cup raisins
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, keeping one-half cup of
flour to sift over the raisins. Chop the suet fine and add it to
the milk and molasses. Combine the two mixtures and add the
raisins, dredged with flour. Grease pudding molds or baking-
powder cans and fill two-thirds full of the mixture. Cover and
steam for three hours. Serve with hard sauce or any desired
liquid sauce.
Cold Puddings
RICE PUDDING
2 eggs
1 1/4 cups cooked rice
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon or
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
nutmeg
Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs, add to the yolks two
tablespoons of the milk and place the rest of the milk on the
fire in a double boiler. Wash the raisins, put them in the milk
and cook until soft (about fifteen minutes). Add the rice,
cook five minutes longer, then stir in the yolks of the eggs and
the salt, sugar and spice. Stir well, cook for two or three
minutes, remove from the fire and pour the pudding into the
serving-dish. Beat the whites of the eggs light, add sugar,
spread the meringue on top of the pudding and brown delicately
in the oven. Serve cold.
RICE AND APPLE PUDDING
8 apples
1/2 cup rice
4 tablespoons butter
8 tablespoons marmalade
4 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cut the apples into small pieces and simmer in a saucepan with
the fat and sugar and enough water to cover. Wash the rice
HOT AND COLD PUDDINGS
553
and cook in boiling salted water until soft, then drain. Line
the bottom and sides of a mold with the rice, fill the center with
the apples, and spread the marmalade over them. Cover the
mold with rice and bake in a slow oven (300°-350° F.) for
fifteen minutes. Let stand until cold, then unmold and turn
on to a platter. Serve with any desired sauce.
Apricots or other fruit may be substituted for the apples.
PEAR CONDE
1 cup rice
3 pears
2 cups boiling water
1 quart raspberries or straw-
1 teaspoon salt
berries
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
Wash the rice and cook it in the boiling water until the water
is absorbed, then add the salt and milk and continue cooking
until the rice is soft. Put into small molds and chill. Turn out
and serve on a platter surrounded by halves of pears. Fill the
pear cavities with one-half the fresh raspberries or strawberries,
crushed and sweetened. Pour the remainder of the crushed,
sweetened berries over the rice and pears. A spoonful of
whipped cream with each serving is a great addition to this
dish.
NEW ENGLAND APRICOT PUDDING
1/2 pound dried apricots
1 cup boiled frosting, using
Cinnamon toast
three egg-whites or 1 cup
1/2 cup sugar
meringue
Soak the apricots over night. Stew until tender and add the
sugar. Arrange squares of cinnamon toast in the bottom and
around the sides of a pudding-dish. Pour in the boiling hot
apricots, cover the dish so that no steam can escape and cool
gradually. Chill and cover the top with boiled frosting
garnished with bits of jelly or with meringue.
PEASANT GIRL WITH A VEIL
2 cups dried crumbs
1 cup tart jam
Whipped cream
This is a delicious Danish pudding. Crumble bits of graham
or rye bread to make fine crumbs. Add a little sugar to the
crumbs and heat them in slow oven until they are very dry.
Cool and mix with any kind of jam, preferably a tart jam like
apricot or plum. Mold, chill and serve with whipped cream.
564
for about fifteen minutes. Add sugar and beaten egg-yolks
and cook two minutes. Strain the custard through a fine sieve
and, when cold, add the cream and vanilla and freeze. This
makes a smooth, rich cream.
For variation, use dark-brown sugar or maple sugar instead
of the white sugar.
FRENCH.
6 egg-yolks
3/4 cup sugar
5 cups medium cream
Vanilla bean
Scald the cream with a piece of vanilla bean. Beat the egg-
yolks, add the sugar and pour the cream slowly on the mixture,
beating constantly. Cook in a double boiler until it thickens,
watching it carefully. Cool, chill, and freeze.
APRICOT ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 cups strained apricot-pulp
1 cup sugar
and juice
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream. When cool,
add the apricot-pulp and juice, and freeze.
No. 2.
1 cup dried apricots
2 cups thin cream
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
Soak the apricots over night and stew them until tender. Put
them through a sieve. Add the sugar to the hot apricots, stir-
ring until dissolved. When cold, add the cream and then
the milk, stirring constantly. Freeze.
BANANA ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon flour
1 pint thin cream
1 tablespoon water
1/2 teaspoon lemon flavoring
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 bananas
1 egg
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563) Remove skins; scrape the bananas with a knife;
put through a sieve, and add to the cold custard mixture.
Freeze.
FROZEN DESSERTS
565
BERRY ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 cups crushed berries
1 cup sugar
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563). When it has cooled, freeze partly; add the crushed
berries, and complete freezing.
CARAMEL ICE CREAM
2 cups milk
1 cup thin cream
1 egg
1/2 cup macaroons
1/2 cup sugar
Caramelize half the sugar (see Index). Combine the milk,
beaten egg, sugar and caramelized sugar. Heat the mixture to
the boiling-point. When cool, add the cream and the macaroons
crushed fine. Beat well and freeze.
BISQUE ICE CREAM
Add one cup of macaroon-crumbs to caramel ice-cream.
CHOCOLATEICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 squares unsweetened
1 cup sugar
chocolate
2 egg-yolks
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563), adding the chocolate to the milk when scalding.
Cool and freeze.
CINNAMON ICE CREAM
Use the recipe for vanilla ice-cream, American (page 563). .
When the milk is put on to scald, add a piece of stick cinnamon
about one inch long and one square of chocolate, grated. Beat
the custard thoroughly with an egg-beater to insure smooth-
VANILLA RENNET-CUSTARD ICE CREAM
2 rennet tablets
1 cup heavy cream
3 cups milk
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons cold water
1 tablespoon vanilla
Dissolve rennet tablets in cold water. Warm the milk, cream,
sugar and vanilla until lukewarm (110° F.). Remove from
stove. Add dissolved tablets, stir a few seconds; pour at once
into freezer can. Let set until firm and cool. Freeze.
MAPLE-FRUIT ICE CREAM
1 cup maple sirup
1 cup crushed pineapple, fresh
2 cups cream
or canned
1/2 cup candied cherries
Combine all ingredients and freeze.
MARSHIMALLOW ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1 pint thin cream
1 egg
1 tablespoon vanilla
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup marshmallows
1/8 teaspoon salt
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream. Add the
marshmallows cut into small pieces. Cool and freeze.
FROZEN DESSERTS
567
GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING NUT
ICE CREAM
Add one-half cup of chopped nuts to a quart of vanilla,
chocolate or caramel ice-cream when the mixture is frozen to
a mush. Finish freezing.
ORANGE ICE CREAM
1 cup milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
1 cup orange-juice
1 cup sugar
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563). Cool, add the orange-juice slowly, then freeze.
No. 1.
PEACHICE CREAM
1 pint milk
2 egg-yolks
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons water
2 cups peach-pulp and juice
1 cup sugar
Make custard as directed for vanilla ice-cream, American
(page 563). When cool, add the peach-pulp and juice, and
freeze.
No. 2.
1 cup fresh peach-pulp
1/4 cup boiling water
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups cream
Make a sirup by boiling the sugar and water together for
five minutes. Add the peaches and put the mixture through
a strainer. Add the cream and freeze.
PISTACHIO ICE CREAM
Use the recipe for vanilla ice-cream, American (page 563) .
Scald three-fourths cup of blanched pistachio nuts with the
milk. The mixture may be colored with green vegetable color-
ing, and the nuts may be put through a food-chopper, if desired.
Cool and freeze.
568
PRUNE ICE CREAM
1 cup prune-pulp
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup milk
Juice of 1 lemon
1 cup cream
Juice of 1 orange
Rub cooked prunes through a sieve, to obtain the pulp. Add
the remaining ingredients, the cream, whipped, last of all, mix
thoroughly and freeze.
RASPBERRY ICE CREAM
1 quart raspberries
2 cups sugar
1 quart cream
Mash the berries and sugar together, and let them stand for
an hour. Rub through a strainer, add the cream, and freeze.
ROSE ICE CREAM
4 cups light cream
1 to 2 teaspoons rose extract
3 cups heavy cream
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
Pink vegetable coloring
1 cup sugar
Mix all the ingredients together thoroughly and freeze with-
out cooking.
No. 1.
BAKED ALASKA
Vanilla ice-cream
4 egg-whites
Sponge cake
4 tablespoons powdered sugar
Fill a round mold with vanilla ice-cream, pack and freeze,
hard. At serving time, beat the whites of the eggs until light,
add the powdered sugar and whip until light and dry. Turn
the ice-cream on to a sheet of sponge cake placed on a board
and cover it thoroughly with the meringue. Dust well with
powdered sugar and set the whole in a hot oven (400°-450°
F.) for a moment to brown. Place on a serving platter and
serve at once.
No. 2, INDIVIDUAL-Cut sponge cake into thick slices and
cut out the center of each slice, leaving about half an inch on
each of the four sides and on the bottom. Set these cake boxes
on a board, put slices of well frozen ice-cream inside, and cover
with meringue, piling it up at the sides. Set in a hot oven
FROZEN DESSERTS
569
(400°-450° F.) for a moment to brown the meringue. Re-
move to a serving-dish and fill the hollows on top with any
preserved fruit or nut mixture.
ICE CREAM SANDWICHES
Between thin slices of devil's food, angel cake, sponge cake
or butter cake, or between halves of éclair or cream-puff shells,
place a serving of ice-cream of a flavor to blend well with the
cake. Cover with chocolate, butterscotch, marshmallow, maple
or fruit sauce, either hot or cold, and top with whipped cream
and nut-meats of various kinds, moist coconut, powdered or
granulated chocolate or pieces of fresh or canned fruit.
For example: (1) Between thin slices of gold or white cake,
place a slice of vanilla ice-cream; over the whole pour plain
marshmallow sauce or whipped cream and garnish with several
tablespoons of crushed strawberries. (2) Fill a cream-puff shell
with peach ice-cream and pour over it a peach sirup, topped
with whipped cream. (3) Place chocolate or vanilla ice-cream
between layers of white or angel cake and cover with a thick
fudge sauce.
SUNDAES
Vanilla, chocolate or any other ice-cream served in a low
glass, with sweetened crushed fruit or any desired sauce poured
over it, is known as a sundae. Whipped cream, nuts, marsh-
mallow cream, etc., may be added as a garnish.
NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM
1 pint strawberry ice-cream
(Any preferred combination
1 pint pistachio ice-cream
of flavors may be used in-
1 pint orange ice
stead of these)
Pack a mold in salt and ice and spread the strawberry ice-
cream smoothly over the bottom. If it is not very firm, cover
and let it stand for a few minutes. Spread a good layer of
orange ice upon it, and as soon as this hardens, spread over it
the pistachio ice-cream. Cover and freeze.
570
Frozen Puddings
FROZEN PUDDING
2 eggs
2 1/2 cups milk
1 cup sugar
1 cup heavy cream
Pinch salt
1 cup candied fruit or nuts
Make a custard of the eggs, sugar, salt, milk and cream. Cool
and freeze. Fill a mold with alternate layers of the frozen
cream and candied fruit or nuts. Cover and freeze.
MOCHA BISCUIT
1 quart milk
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup pulverized coffee
2 tablespoons flour
6 eggs
Put the milk into a double boiler, drop into it a muslin bag
containing the pulverized coffee and let it infuse for fifteen
minutes, keeping the milk at the scalding point. Beat the eggs
and sugar together until smooth. Remove the bag of coffee
from the milk, add the flour stirred with a little cold milk or
water and cook fifteen minutes. Pour over the egg mixture
and return to the double boiler to cook until smooth and thick.
When cold partly freeze, then fill paper cases with the mixture
and complete the freezing. Serve garnished with whipped
cream.
NESSELRODE PUDDING
3 cups milk
3 tablespoons pineapple sirup
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup almonds
5 egg-yolks
1 cup French chestnuts
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup seeded raisins
1 pint cream
1/4 cup assorted fruits
Make a custard of the milk, sugar, egg-yolks and salt. When
cool, add the cream and pineapple sirup. Blanch the almonds
and chop them fine, then pound to a paste. Shell the chestnuts,
blanch and boil until tender. Force through a sieve, and add to
the custard. Freeze.
Line a two-quart melon mold with half the frozen mixture.
To the remaining half, add a half-dozen large French chestnuts
which have been boiled until tender, also the raisins and the as-
sorted fruits cut in bits. Fill the mold with this mixture, cover
FROZEN DESSERTS
571
and pack in ice and salt for two hours, or pack and freeze in
the trays of the mechanical refrigerator. This is often served
in individual paper cases with a bit of candied fruit on top of
each.
PEACH MERINGUE
1/4 teaspoon gelatin
2/3 cup cream
1 tablespoon cold water
2 egg-whites
1/4 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sugar
Peach ice-cream
Soak the gelatin in the cold water and dissolve it in the boil-
ing water. Add sugar and stir until it is dissolved. Add the
cream. When it begins to thicken, pour slowly over the beaten
whites of eggs and continue beating until it is the consistency
of whipped cream. Add vanilla. Line a round mold with
frozen peach ice-cream and fill the center with the meringue.
Pack in ice and salt, and let stand three to four hours, or pack
and freeze in the trays of the mechanical refrigerator.
Mousses and Parfaits
STRAWBERRY OR OTHER FRUIT MOUSSE
1 pint rich cream
1 cup fruit-pulp
Vanilla
Whip and drain the cream. Mix with it the pulp of any
fruit drained free of juice and sprinkled well with powdered
sugar. Add vanilla, mold, and pack in ice and salt for three
hours, or pack and freeze in the trays of the mechanical refrig-
erator.
MAPLE MOUSSE
1 1/4 cups maple sirup
2 tablespoons gelatin
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup cold water
5 cups cream
Combine maple sirup, sugar and one cup of cream and bring
to a boil, stirring constantly. Add the gelatin softened in water
and dissolved over heat. Strain, cool in ice-water until the
mixture thickens, then add the remainder of the cream,
whipped stiff. Place in a mold, pack in ice and salt and let
stand for four hours, or pack and freeze in the trays of the me-
chanical refrigerator.
572
MAPLE PARFAIT
3/4 cup maple sirup
3 egg-whites
1 pint cream
Cook maple sirup to the light crack stage (270° F.). Pour
the sirup over the beaten whites of the eggs and beat until cold.
Fold into the stiffly whipped cream. Mold and pack in ice and
salt for four hours, or pack and freeze in the trays of the me-
chanical refrigerator. Serve in parfait glasses with whipped
cream.
MARSHMALLOW MOUSSE
1 pint cream
7 maraschino cherries, cut in
1 cup top milk
pieces
6 marshmallows
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup chopped nut-meats
1 egg-white, beaten
3/4 cup powdered sugar
Warm the milk, add marshmallows and beat well to dissolve,
then chill. Beat egg-white and fold in with the sugar and
vanilla. Beat cream very stiff, and fold in, together with the
nuts and cherries. Pack in ice and salt or freeze in the trays
of the mechanical refrigerator not less than two and a half
hours.
BISCUIT GLACE
1 cup sugar
3 1/3 cups cream
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 egg-yolks
Pulverized macaroons
Make a thick sirup of the sugar and water. Beat the yolks
of the eggs and add the sirup and one-half cup of the cream.
Place all in a saucepan over a slow fire and stir constantly until
it forms a thick coating on the spoon. Empty into a mixing-
bowl, set on ice, beat until it is cold and stiff, and then add
the remainder of the cream beaten very stiff. Flavor with
vanilla or any preferred extract.
Pack the mixture in small paper boxes, sprinkle with pul-
verized macaroons, and set in a covered container. Pack in ice
and salt and let stand for four hours, or pack and freeze in the
trays of the mechanical refrigerator.
FROZEN DESSERTS
573
CHARLOTTE GLACE
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 tablespoon gelatin
1 pint thick cream
4 tablespoons cold water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Dissolve sugar in cream. Add vanilla. Soften the gelatin
in cold water, dissolve over heat and combine the two mixtures.
Fill a cylindrical mold (a baking-powder can will do very
nicely) and pack in salt and ice for two hours, or pack and
freeze in the trays of the mechanical refrigerator. Turn out on
a platter, surround with lady fingers, cover the top with
whipped cream and serve.
Ices and Frozen Fruits
CRANBERRY ICE
1 quart water
1 quart cranberries
3 cups sugar
Make a sirup by boiling water and sugar together for five
minutes. Boil the cranberries in a little water until soft, then
press through a sieve. Add to the sirup, cool, and freeze.
LEMON ICE
1 quart water
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup lemon-juice
Make a sirup by boiling the water with the sugar for five
minutes. Add the strained lemon-juice, cool and freeze.
ORANGE ICE
1 quart water
2 grated orange-rinds
2 cups sugar
1/4 cup lemon-juice
2 cups orange-juice
Make a sirup as for lemon ice. Add the fruit-juices and
grated rind. Strain, cool and freeze.
RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICE
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup raspberry-juice
1 1/4 cups currant-juice
1 quart water
At least one quart each of the berries and currants will be
needed to give the required amount of juice. Sprinkle one-
574
half cup of the sugar over them, stir well and let stand for one
hour. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese-cloth. Make a
sirup of the remaining sugar and the water. Add the fruit-
juice, strain, cool and freeze.
GRAPE ICE
2/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups water
1 cup grape-juice
2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1/4 cup orange-juice
Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes. Mix all
the ingredients together, strain and freeze.
COUPE SAINT JACQUES
Fruit cup
Maraschino cherries
Lemon ice
Angelica
Fill champagne glasses with fruit prepared by the recipe for
fruit cup, No. 1 (See Index). Over the top spread a thick
layer of lemon ice, decorating the center with one Maraschino
cherry, and four leaves of angelica radiating from it.
FROZEN STRAWBERRIES OR OTHER FRUIT
Strawberries, raspberries, fresh peaches or crushed pineapple
make delicious frozen fruit. Mash or crush the fruit very fine,
add half as much sugar as there is fruit and allow it to stand
until a sirup is formed. Freeze in a crank freezer or pack in
the trays of a mechanical refrigerator and stir occasionally while
it is freezing.
CANNED FRUITS, especially pears, and peaches in heavy sirup,
may be frozen in the can. Pack in ice and salt, allow two or
three hours for freezing, open the can and serve in slices.
Sherbets Made without Gelatin
CURRANT SHERBET
3 pints red currants
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 pint red raspberries
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
2 cups water
2 egg-whites
Place currants, raspberries and a cup of the water in a kettle
and simmer slowly together for a few minutes. Strain, add
FROZEN DESSERTS
575
remaining water, sugar and lemon-juice. Dissolve sugar in the
fruit-juice mixture, cool and freeze to a mush. Stir in the beaten
whites of eggs. Pack and let stand several hours.
LEMON SHERBET
No. 1-WITH WATER.
1 quart water
3/4 cup lemon-juice
3 cups sugar
2 egg-whites
Make a sirup by boiling sugar and water together for five
minutes. Add lemon-juice, cool and freeze to a mush. Add
the beaten whites of the eggs and continue freezing.
No. 2-WITH MILK.
1/2 cup lemon-juice
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 quart milk
Mix together the lemon-juice and sugar and add to the milk
slowly, stirring constantly. If the ingredients are cold, and the
acid is added slowly to the milk, rather than the milk to the
acid, there is little danger of the mixture curdling. However,
if it does curdle slightly the quality of the sherbet will not be
affected. Strain and freeze.
PINEAPPLE SHERBET
1 quart water
2 cups crushed pineapple,
2 cups sugar
fresh or canned
1 lemon
2 egg-whites
Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. Scald the
pineapple in the boiling sirup, and rub through a sieve. Cool,
add lemon-juice and freeze to a mush. Add the beaten whites
of the eggs and continue freezing.
RASPBERRY SHERBET
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
1 quart raspberries
1 egg-white
Add sugar to the raspberries, and let stand in refrigerator for
two hours. If the mixture does not seem sweet enough, more
sugar may be added. Add lemon-juice and beaten egg-white
and freeze. Serve in glasses garnished with whipped cream.
576
Sherbets Made with Gelatin
STANDARD RECIPE FOR SHERBETS MADE WITH
GELATIN
1 tablespoon gelatin
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups cold water
Fruit-juice
1/2 cup boiling water
Soak the gelatin in one-half cup of the cold water. Add the
boiling water and stir until disolved. Then add the sugar,
remainder of cold water, and the strained juice of any fruit.
Chill and freeze.
LEMON-Use the strained juice of six lemons.
ORANGE-Use the strained juice of six oranges and two
lemons.
RASPBERRY-Use a pint of strained raspberry juice and the
juice of two lemons.
STRAWBERRY-Use a pint of strained strawberry juice and
the juice of two lemons.
CRANBERRY SHERBET
1 quart water
2 lemons
2 cups sugar
1 pint cranberry-juice
1 tablespoon gelatin
Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes. Add
the gelatin, which has been softened in cold water and dissolved
over heat, the lemon-juice, and cranberry-juice. Strain, cool
and freeze.
GINGER SHERBET
2 quarts water
1/4 cup sirup from Canton
3 cups sugar
ginger
6 lemons
1 teaspoon powdered ginger
1 tablespoon gelatin
2 egg-whites, if desired
Boil water and sugar together for five minutes. Add lemon-
juice, gelatin softened in a little cold water, the sirup and the
powdered ginger. Freeze to a mush, then stir in the beaten egg-
whites (these may be omitted). Serve in sherbet glasses.
SAUCES FOR DESSERTS
APRICOT SAUCE
3/4 cup apricot pulp
3/4 cup heavy cream
Sugar
D
RAIN canned apricots from their sirup and rub through
a sieve. Beat cream until stiff, add to apricot pulp, and
sweeten to taste.
BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE
1 1/2 cups light brown sugar
1/2 tablespoon lemon-juice
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup chopped nut-meats
4 tablespoons butter
Boil sugar and water together to the soft ball stage (234°-
240° F.) Add butter, lemon-juice and nut-meats.
CARAMEL SAUCE
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon corn-starch
1 tablespoon cold water
1 tablespoon butter
1 1/2 cups hot water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Place the sugar and cold water in a pan and stir until the re-
sulting sirup is a clear brown, but not so dark as caramel; then
add the hot water and stir until the whole is well blended.
Add the corn-starch mixed with a little cold water and boil for
five minutes. Continue cooking over hot water for fifteen
minutes, stirring all the time. Beat in the butter and vanilla.
CHERRY SAUCE
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup cherry-juice
1 tablespoon corn-starch
Cream the sugar and the butter, add the corn-starch and the
liquid, and boil over hot water for five minutes, stirring con-
stantly. Continue cooking for twenty-five minutes.
579
580
No. 1.
CHOCOLATE SAUCE
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 squares unsweetened choco-
1/2 cup water
late
1/4 cup rich milk or water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Let sugar and water boil in a saucepan for five minutes. Cool
partly and gradually stir in the chocolate which has been melted
over hot water. Add the vanilla. Place in a double boiler or
in a pan over hot water until ready to serve. At the last mo-
ment, add the milk. (If to be used with ice-cream, use water
instead of milk.)
No. 2.
1 cup sugar
1 square chocolate
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix together the sugar, water and grated chocolate. Boil
for five minutes. Cool slightly and add the butter and vanilla.
COFFEE SAUCE
1 cup clear black coffee
3 egg-yolks
1/3 cup sugar
Make a soft custard of the three ingredients. This is de-
licious for vanilla or lemon ice-cream.
CUSTARD SAUCE
Use recipe for soft custard (See Index). If a thinner sauce
is desired, the custard may be thinned with a little cream.
FOAMY SAUCE
1/2 cup butter
2 tablespoons hot water
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 egg
Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar, the egg, well
beaten, and the hot water. Heat over hot water, beating con-
tinually until it thickens. Add the vanilla and serve.
SAUCES FOR DESSERTS
58I
HARD SAUCE
1/3 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla or other
1 cup powdered, granulated,
flavoring
brown or maple sugar
Cream the butter until very soft, then stir in the sugar and
the flavoring. Set in a cool place until required for use. A
grating of lemon-rind or nutmeg, or a sprinkle of powdered
cinnamon may be used instead of the vanilla. Cream or milk
may be added, with more sugar to make more sauce. This
sauce may be used with a hot pudding of any kind.
HONEY SAUCE
1 egg
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup honey
1/2 lemon, juice and grated
1 cup hot water
rind
Beat the egg, and add the other ingredients in the order
given. Cook over hot water for about fifteen minutes, stirring
constantly.
LEMON SAUCE
1/2 cup sugar
Nutmeg
Salt
1 tablespoon corn-starch
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 cup boiling water
Mix the sugar and corn-starch, add the boiling water and a
pinch of salt and boil until thick and clear. Continue cooking
over hot water for tiventy minutes. Beat in the butter, the
lemon-juice and nutmeg. A grating of lemon-rind may be
added.
MAPLE SAUCE
1/2 cup water
1 pound (2 cups) maple sugar
1/2 cup walnut-meats
or 2 cups brown sugar
Add the water to the maple sugar and boil until it reaches
the thread stage (230°-234° F.). Add the walnut-meats
broken into small pieces. This sauce is good with ice-cream,
blanc mange or custard. It may be used hot or cold.
582
MARSHMALLOW SAUCE
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 pound marshmallows
1/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons water
Boil the sugar and milk to the thread stage (230°-234° F.).
Cool and beat until thick and white. Set in boiling water
and stir until thin enough to pour. Stir the marshmallows with
the water in a double boiler until smooth. Pour the sirup over
the melted marshmallows and beat together. Keep warm, but
not hot.
FRUIT MARSHIMALLOW SAUCE
Thin commercial marshmallow whip with fruit-juice.
MARSHMALLOW MINT SAUCE
1/2 cup sugar
1 egg-white, beaten stiff
1/4 cup water
1 drop oil of peppermint
8 marshmallows
Green coloring matter
Make a thin sirup of the sugar and water (220°-230° F.)
.
Cut the marshmallows in quarters and add to the sirup. Pour
the mixture over the egg-white gradually, beating vigorously.
Add the flavoring and tint a delicate green. This sauce is ex-
cellent served with chocolate ice-cream.
MOLASSES SAUCE
1 cup molasses
1 tablespoon lemon-juice or
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
vinegar
Boil the molasses with the butter for about five minutes. Re-
move from the fire and slowly stir in the lemon-juice or vinegar.
This sauce is especially good with brown betty or Indian pud-
ding.
ORANGE SAUCE
5 tablespoons butter
3 egg-whites
1/2 cup sugar
Juice of 2 oranges
1/2 cup boiling water
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
Cream the butter with the sugar. Put into a saucepan over
hot water and add the boiling water. Then beat in the stiffly
beaten whites of the eggs, the orange-juice and lemon-juice and
continue beating until light and foamy.
SAUCES FOR DESSERTS
583
PLUM PUDDING SAUCE
1/4 cup butter
2 eggs
1 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup rich milk or cream
2 tablespoons cider
Cream the butter and powdered sugar. Add the cider and
the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. When well mixed, stir in
the milk or cream. Cook in a double boiler until it is as thick
as a custard and then gradually pour it into the beaten whites
of the eggs, beating constantly.
RAISIN SAUCE
1/2 cup seeded raisins
1/4 cup chopped citron
1 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon corn-starch
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 teaspoon lemon-juice
Simmer the raisins and citron in the water until the raisins
are tender (about one hour). Sift the sugar and corn-starch
together and add to the raisin mixture. Mix well and continue
cooking for ten minutes. Add the butter and lemon-juice.
SUGAR BRITTLE
Stir one-fourth cup of sugar without any water in a saucepan
over the fire until melted and of an amber color. Turn on to
an oiled pan. When cold, pound in a mortar or in several folds
of cloth. This may be sprinkled over any ice-cream.
STRAWBERRY OR OTHER BERRY SAUCE
No. 1.
2 cups berries
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1 egg-white
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
The small fruits such as strawberries, raspberries and black-
berries, make most satisfactory sauce for desserts. Place the
berries in a bowl, add the granulated sugar and mash slightly.
Refrigerate until time to serve. Beat the butter to a cream, add
the powdered sugar gradually, working it in well. Then add
the egg-white, beaten stiff. Just before serving, combine with
the mashed berries.
No. 2-Crush ripe berries in sugar.
584
VANILLA SAUCE
Use the recipe for lemon sauce (page 581) substituting one
teaspoon vanilla for the lemon-juice and grated rind.
YELLOW SAUCE
1 egg
3 tablespoons milk
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat the white of the egg stiff, add the sugar, mix well and
add the yolk of the egg, then the milk and flavoring, beating
after each is added until the whole is smooth. This sauce is de-
licious on almost any pudding.
NEW ENGLAND NUTMEG SAUCE
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon flour
1 teaspoon nutmeg, grated
2 cups boiling water
Salt
Mix well the sugar, flour and a pinch of salt. Add boiling
water gradually, stirring continuously. Then add the butter
and cook for five minutes. Remove from the fire and stir in the
nutmeg. Serve hot on apple dumplings, bird's-nest or berry
puddings that have been made with biscuit dough.
AVOCADO CREAM SAUCE
1 cup cream, whipped
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup sieved avocado
3 drops green vegetable coloring
Peel an avocado, remove pit, and force the pulp through a
fine sieve. Whip the cream until stiff and add the sugar. Mix
well. Add the salt and strained avocado and blend. Then add
the food coloring. This dressing is delicious on fruit salads,
baked apples or any hot dessert.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
595
thirty minutes). Serve cherry pies the same day they are baked,
or the under crust will become heavy. Sprinkle powdered
sugar over each piece just before serving.
Follow the same directions in using any small fruit for pies.
MOCK CHERRY PIE
1 cup cranberries
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 cup seeded raisins
1 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon butter
Line a pie-pan with crust. Fill with cranberries, washed and
cut in halves, mixed with chopped raisins. Sprinkle with mix-
ture of sugar and flour, add almond extract, and dot with
butter. Cover with a second crust, and bake in a hot oven
(450° F. for ten minutes, then 425° F. for thirty minutes.)
HUCKLEBERRY OR BLUEBERRY PIE
1 quart huckleberries or
1 cup sugar
blueberries
Flour
Wash and drain the berries and sift a very little flour over
them, dredging carefully until each berry is lightly coated.
Stir the sugar well into the fruit, and turn into a pie-pan lined
with crust. Cover with an upper crust and bake about forty
minutes in a hot oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then 425° F.
for 30 minutes) Serve cold, with sugar sifted over the top.
Flouring the berries as directed will make just enough thicken-
ing to counteract the excessive amount of juice.
PINEAPPLE PIE
2 cups crushed pineapple
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons corn-starch
Juice 1/2 lemon
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 egg-yolks
Scald the pineapple. Mix corn-starch, salt and sugar, and stir
into the pineapple. Stir and cook ten minutes. Add lemon-
juice and beaten yolks slowly. Cover and let cook five minutes.
When cool, turn into baked crust, and cover with whipped
cream or a meringue made from the whites of the eggs, or orna-
ment with baked circles, crescents, or other figures cut from
remaining crust.
596
PEACH PIE
2 cups cut up peaches
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon butter
1/8 teaspoon allspice, if
desired
Pare peaches and slice thin. Put in pie-pan lined with paste;
sprinkle with sugar and spice, add water and dot with butter.
Cover with upper crust and bake forty minutes in hot oven
(450° F. 10 minutes, then 425° F. 30 minutes).
FIG PIE
3/4 pound dried figs
2 tablespoons granulated
1 1/2 cups boiling water
sugar
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
Cut the figs fine, add boiling water and cook about one-half
hour, or until the skins are tender. Beat the egg-yolks, add the
granulated sugar and the salt, stir into the figs and cook until
the egg thickens. Turn into a baked crust. Cover with a
meringue made of the stiffly beaten egg-whites and the powdered
sugar. Brown in a slow oven (300°-350° F.).
.
RHUBARB PIE
No. 1, DOUBLE CRUST-
2 cups cut up rhubarb
Flour
1 cup sugar
Wash and peel the rhubarb and cut it into small pieces.
Flour the pieces until they are quite white, then add sugar.
Line a pie-pan with paste, put in the rhubarb, with the sugar
well stirred into it. Cover with the upper crust and bake about
forty minutes in a hot oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then
425° F. for 30 minutes).
No. 2, SINGLE CRUST WITH MERINGUE-
2 cups cut up rhubarb
1 tablespoon sugar for
3 tablespoons flour
meringue
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon butter
2 eggs
Line a pie-pan with plain paste. Wash and peel the rhubarb,
cut it into small pieces, and dredge with flour until each piece
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
597
is quite white. Mix the sugar, rhubarb and egg-yolks together
and place in the pie-pan. Dot with butter. Bake in a hot to
slow oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then 325° F. for 30 min-
utes). When the filling is set, spread over the top the stiffly
beaten whites of the eggs, into which the tablespoonful of sugar
has been folded. Return to the oven and brown the meringue
lightly (300°-350° F. for 8-10 minutes).
PRUNE OR DATE PIE
1 cup cooked and pitted
1/2 cup sugar
prunes or dates
2 tablespoons butter
1 lemon, juice and grated rind
1 teaspoon cinnamon or nut-
1 cup water or juice
meg, or 1/4 cup moist
1 tablespoon flour
coconut, if desired
Cook the prunes with the other ingredients until slightly
thickened. Add a little cinnamon or nutmeg, if desired. Bake
between two crusts in a hot oven (450° F. for 10 minutes, then
425° F. for 30 minutes). Prune or date pie is delicious served
with ice-cream or whipped cream. This amount makes a small
pie.
STRAWBERRY PIE
1 cup sugar
1 quart strawberries, washed
2 1/2 tablespoons flour
and hulled
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 recipe Plain Pastry (page 588)
Mix sugar, flour and salt together. Mix with strawberries
and lemon juice. Line pie plate with pastry and fill with fruit
mixture. Adjust top crust, gash to allow for escape of steam.
Bake in a very hot oven (450° F.) for 10 minutes, then reduce
to moderate (350° F.) and bake 30 minutes longer.
No. 1.
RAISIN PIE
1 cup seeded raisins
4 1/2 tablespoons flour
2 1/4 cups water
1 egg, beaten
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 teaspoons grated lemon rind
Mix the sugar and flour, add with the seasonings to the beaten
egg, add the raisins and liquid. Cook in double boiler until
'598
mixture thickens. Cool, then pour into pastry lined pie plate,
adjust top crust. Bake in a hot oven (450° F.) for 10 minutes
then reduce to 350° F. and bake 30 minutes longer.
PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE
1 tablespoon gelatin
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup cold water
2 tablespoons butter
1 1/2 cups cooked pumpkin
1/2 cup milk
1 cup brown sugar
3 eggs, separated
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 tablespoons granulated
1/2 teaspoon ginger
sugar
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1 baked pastry shell
Soften gelatin in cold water for 5 minutes. Combine next
8 ingredients with slightly-beaten egg yolks in the top of a
double boiler. Cook over water until thickened. Add gelatin
and stir until dissolved. Cool until beginning to congeal.
Beat egg whites, add sugar and beat until stiff. Fold into
pumpkin mixture. Pour into baked pastry shell and chill until
firm. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.
CREAM PIE
1 cup hot milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon corn-starch
2 egg-yolks or 1 whole egg
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Scald the milk. Mix the corn-starch, sugar and salt and add
hot milk, slowly. Cook twenty minutes over hot water. Beat
the egg-yolks and add slowly, stirring rapidly. Cool and add
vanilla. Put into a baked crust.
VARIATIONS OF CREAM PIE
BANANA OR ORANGE PIE-Slice fruit into baked crust and
cover with cream pie filling. Cover top with meringue made
from two egg-whites and two tablespoons powdered sugar.
Brown in a slow oven (300°-350° F.).
CHOCOLATE PIE-Use only seven-eighths of a tablespoon of
corn-starch. Add two tablespoons grated chocolate and two
tablespoons sugar just before removing cream pie filling from
the stove. Beat well. Cover with meringue made as in banana
or orange pie above.
COCONUT PIE-Add four tablespoons moist coconut to the
cream pie filling and two tablespoons shredded coconut to the
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
599
meringue. Make meringue as directed for banana or orange
pie above.
NUT AND RAISIN PIE-Stir one cup of chopped nuts or
raisins, or nuts and raisins combined, into the filling, and
sprinkle a few over the top.
DATE PIE-Add one cup of chopped dates to the filling.
Cover with meringue as directed for banana or orange pie.
BUTTERSCOTCH PIE
1 1/2 cups milk
2 eggs
1 cup brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons corn-starch
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
Heat one cup of milk with the sugar until the sugar is free
from lumps. Mix the corn-starch, one-half cup milk and egg-
yolks and add to the hot mixture slowly. Cook in a double
boiler until thick, stirring constantly; then continue to cook
for ten minutes longer, stirring occasionally. Remove from
fire and add butter. When cool, pour into a baked pastry
shell. Cover with meringue made from the stiffly beaten egg-
whites and the powdered sugar. Brown in a slow oven (300° -
350° F.).
As AN ATTRACTIVE VARIATION, cover the top of the pie with
halves of marshmallows instead of meringue, and brown in the
oven. In this case, use one whole egg instead of two yolks.
No. 1.
COTTAGE CHEESE PIE
1 1/2 cups smooth cottage-
2 eggs
cheese
1 lemon, grated rind and juice
1 cup fine chopped raisins or
2 tablespoons cream
1 cup moist coconut
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup honey, sirup or sugar
Press the cheese through a ricer, add other ingredients and
mix thoroughly. Turn into paste lined pie-pan and bake (450°
F.) until the mixture thickens slightly. Lower the heat (325°
F.) and bake until firm.
No. 2-Omit raisins or coconut and spread preserves or jam
on top after the pie is baked.
600
CUSTARD PIE
2 or 3 eggs or 4 to 6 yolks
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon or
1/2 cup sugar
nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups hot milk
Beat the eggs, add sugar, salt, cinnamon and milk. Mix well
and pour into unbaked crust. Place in a hot oven (450° F.)
for ten minutes to bake sides and bottom of crust. This will
help to prevent a soggy crust. Decrease the heat and cook (at
325° F.) until a silver knife inserted in the center will come
out clean (about thirty minutes). The custard must not boil
at any time. If it does, it will be watery.
COCONUT CUSTARD PIE
2 eggs
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup moist coconut
2 cups hot milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
Beat the eggs and sugar together until light, then add the
milk, nutmeg, coconut and salt. Line a deep pie-pan with
crust, pour the mixture in and bake at 450° F. for ten minutes.
Then reduce the heat to 325° F. and bake until a silver knife
inserted in the center will come out clean (about thirty min-
utes). These quantities will make one thick pie or two thin
pies.
LEMON CHIFFON PIE
4 eggs, separated
1 tablespoon gelatin
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup cold water
1/2 cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 baked pastry shell
Whipped Cream
Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored; add 1/2 cup of
sugar, lemon juice and salt. Cook in a double boiler until the
consistency of custard. Soften gelatin in cold water for 5
minutes, then dissolve in hot custard. Add lemon rind. Cool
until mixture begins to thicken. Beat remaining sugar into
stifll-beaten egg whites and fold into gelatin mixture. Blend
well. Fill baked pastry shell. Chill until firm. Cover with
whipped cream before serving. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
601
VARIATIONS-Grapefruit Chiffon Pie: Use grapefruit juice
and rind for lemon juice and rind.
ORANGE CHIFFON PIE: Use orange juice for lemon juice,
omit lemon rind and add 1 tablespoon grated orange rind and
1 tablespoon lemon juice.
LIME CHIFFON PIE: Use lime juice for lemon juice and
grated lime rind in place of lemon rind.
SOUR CREAM PIE
1 1/2 cups sour cream
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
2 eggs
4 tablespoons flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup chopped raisins
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon cloves
2 tablespoons sugar
Scald one cup of the cream in a double boiler. Mix egg-
yolks, spices, flour, sugar and remaining cream and add slowly
to the hot mixture. Cook fifteen minutes. Add raisins and
vanilla. When partly cooled, pour into a baked crust. Cover
with meringue made from stiffly beaten egg-whites and 2 table-
spoons sugar. Brown in a slow oven (300°-350° F.).
PUMPKIN PIE
1 1/2 cups prepared pumpkin
1 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup brown sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups milk
1/2 teaspoon ginger
Steam or bake fresh pumpkin and put it through a sieve.
Canned pumpkin is ready to use. Add remaining ingredients
in the order given. Turn into a crust-lined pan and bake.
Use a high temperature at first (450° F.) to cook the bottom
and sides of crust. Reduce the temperature and continue cook-
ing at 325° F. until a silver knife inserted in the center will
come out clean. Do not let the pie boil, as that will make it
watery.
A delicious addition, is one-half cup of fine chopped nut-
meats. Whipped cream and a tart jelly are also very good with
pumpkin pie.
SQUASH PIE
The yellow, hard-shelled squash makes almost as good pies as
pumpkin and is often easier to obtain. Use the proportions
602
given for pumpkin pie, adding two tablespoons of butter, be-
cause squash is not so oily as pumpkin. Stew, steam or bake the
squash about one hour and be sure that it is as dry as possible.
Baking insures this more easily than does any other method of
cooking.
SWEET POTATO PIE
Pare and boil or bake sweet potatoes, press them through a
sieve and follow the directions given for pumpkin pie, adding
three tablespoons of butter and reducing the sugar to one-
fourth cup unless a very sweet pie is desired. Flavor with nut-
meg.
MINCE PIE
1 recipe Plain Pastry
2 1/2 cups mincemeat
(page 588)
Line pie plate with pastry. Fill with mincemeat. Cover with
top crust which has several slits in it to allow steam to escape.
Moisten edges of lower crust with cold water, fold upper crust
under lower crust and press edges together with floured fork.
Bake in a very hot oven (450° F.) for 10 minutes, reduce to
350° F. and bake 30 to 40 minutes longer or until crust is
browned. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie. Serve hot or cold.
MINCEMEAT
3 pounds lean beef
2 pounds sugar
1/2 pound suet
2 cups cider vinegar
6 pounds sour apples
2 cups molasses
3 pounds seeded raisins
1 tablespoon cloves
2 pounds seedless raisins
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 pound citron, minced
1 teaspoon mace
1 nutmeg, grated
1 tablespoon salt
Cut meat in cubes, coyer with water and simmer until tender.
Cool. Force meat, suet and pared and cored apples through a
food chopper. Add remaining ingredients plus 2 cups stock
and simmer 1 hour, stirring frequently. Fill into sterilized jars,
seal and keep in a cool place. Makes about 9 quarts.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
603
MOCK MINCEMEAT
6 green tomatoes
1/2 cup minced citron
6 tart apples
2 tablespoons orange rind
1/4 pound seedless raisins
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 pound seeded raisins
1 teaspoon cloves
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/4 cup fruit juice
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1/4 cup cider vinegar
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
Force tomatoes and cored apples through a food chopper.
Add remaining ingredients and cook until thick. Fill into steril-
ized jars and seal. Makes about 1 quart.
LEMON MERINGUE PIE
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon lemon rind
1/4 cup cornstarch
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 baked pastry shell
1 1/2 cups boiling water
3 tablespoons confectioners'
2 eggs, separated
sugar
1/3 cup lemon juice
Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt in a double boiler. Add
boiling water slowly, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water
until mixture thickens. Beat the egg yolks slightly; pour some
of the hot mixture over them and stir vigorously. Return to
the double boiler and cook for 2 minutes. Remove from heat
and add lemon juice, rind and butter; beat well. Cool before
pouring mixture into baked pastry shell. Beat whites stiff, add
confectioners' sugar gradually and beat until well blended.
Spread over filling. Bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) until
the meringue is brown. Cool. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.
VARIATION-Individual Lemon Pies: Fill individual baked
pastry shells with lemon mixture and top with meringue.
BOILED CIDER PIE
1/3 cup rich, boiled cider
1 teaspoon butter
1/3 cup grated maple sugar
2 egg whites and 2 table-
2 eggs
spoons powdered sugar, if
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
meringue is desired.
1/2 cup seeded raisins
Boil sugar in cider until dissolved. Add beaten eggs slowly
and stir until thickened. Add butter, raisins and nutmeg.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
607
CRAB APPLE PUFFS
Line muffin-tins with puff or flaky paste; fill with crabapple
jelly, cover with the paste and bake at 450° F. for ten minutes.
Then reduce the heat slightly (to 425° F.) and complete bak-
ing. Remove from the tins while hot. Serve with a sauce made
by melting crabapple jelly.
RAISIN STICKS
1/4 recipe puff or flaky paste
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
Seedless raisins
2 tablespoons sugar
Butter
Work into paste as many seedless raisins as it will hold. Add
sugar and cinnamon. Roll out in a strip four inches wide and
one-half inch thick. Sift a little sugar on top and cut cross-
wise in strips three-fourths of an inch wide. Put a bit of butter
on each stick and bake in a very hot oven (450°-500° F.)
until brown.
FRENCH PASTRY SANDWICHES
1 lemon
1 cup sugar
1 egg
Roll puff paste about one-fourth of an inch thick and cut in
circles. Dip in ice-water and bake. Serve two of these put to-
gether with filling made as follows:
Remove rind and seeds from the lemon, and chop the lemon
fine. Add sugar and egg and beat together thoroughly. Cook
until it thickens. This filling is sufficient for a dozen pastries.
MAMMY'S FRIED PIES
Stew dried apples, peaches or apricots. Drain off all juice,
mash well and sweeten. Roll puff paste one-eighth inch thick
and cut circles three inches in diameter. On one of the circles
place a spoonful of the filling, having a clear margin of the pie-
crust. Moisten this edge all around, place another circle on
top and press the edges firmly together. Fry in deep fat like
doughnuts or sauté with a little fat in a hot frying-pan, turn-
ing the pie so that it will brown on both sides. These are good
with fillings of mince meat, or any thick jam or preserve.
608
APPLE OR PEACH CAKE
2 cups flour
1 egg
4 teaspoons baking-powder
Milk
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup molasses
6 to 8 juicy apples or peaches
Make a crust by sifting the flour and baking-powder together,
cutting in the butter and adding salt, beaten egg and enough
sweet milk to make a soft dough. Roll the crust one-half inch
thick and line a greased baking-tin with it. Cover the crust
with quartered apples and sprinkle with a little cinnamon and
molasses. Bake in a rather quick oven (400° F.) till crust and
apples are both a light brown. Sprinkle with sugar, keep in
the oven five minutes more and then serve. This amount
makes one large cake.
GOOSEBERRY TARTS
Remove stems and tails of green gooseberries, stew slowly
in very little water till the fruit breaks, then sweeten well and
set aside to cool. When cold, turn into pastry shells cover with
a top of puff paste and bake in a very quick oven (450° F.). .
Brush each over while hot with beaten egg and set back in the
oven three minutes to glaze. Serve cold.
GRAPE TARTLETS
1 cup grapes
1/2 cup white grape-juice
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon corn-starch
1/2 cup water
1 cup whipped cream
Cover inverted oval patty-pans with puff or flaky paste. The
paste should be pricked thoroughly so that it will keep its shape.
Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven (400°-450° F.) remove
from the pan, dry the inside and fill with grape mixture made as
follows: Make a sirup by boiling together sugar, water and
grape-juice. Moisten the corn-starch to a smooth paste with
a little cold water and stir in as thickening. Remove seeds from
the grapes and put the grapes into this sirup. Simmer until the
grapes are soft and sirup is thick. At serving time, fill the shells
and top each one with whipped cream and a single uncooked
grape laid open in halves. This recipe makes from six to eight
tartlets.
PASTRY AND MERINGUES
609
LEMON TARTLETS
2 lemons
2 eggs
2 cups sugar
1 cup sponge cake crumbs
Mix the juice and grated rind of the lemons with the sugar,
eggs and sponge cake crumbs. Beat until smooth. Put into
twelve patty-pans lined with paste and bake in a hot oven
(400°-450° F.) until the crust is done (15-20 minutes).
MACAROON TARTS
2 eggs
1 lemon
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 dozen dry macaroons
Mix the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and beat until light.
Roll the macaroons, add to the egg and sugar mixture, and
flavor with the grated rind and juice of the lemon. Mix this
with the melted butter. Beat until smooth and then fold in
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Cover inverted patty-
tins with puff or flaky paste, prick thoroughly and bake in a
hot oven (400°-450° F.). When cool, put a spoonful of
marmalade or jelly into each and cover with the macaroon mix-
ture. Place for a moment or two in the oven until the tops
brown. This amount will make six to eight tarts.
MARMALADE STRIPS
Place a thin layer of crust on an inverted baking-pan. Spread
with thick marmalade or any filling that does not run. Cover
with another thin layer. Cut into strips four inches by one
and a half. Bake in a quick oven (400°-450° F.). When
cool, spread with a thin icing made of confectioners' sugar and
water. Sprinkle with finely chopped nuts.
NAPOLEONS
Divide puff paste into three portions and roll each portion
into a sheet as thin as possible without breaking. Prick
thoroughly and chill. Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven
(400°-450° F.), cool and spread the sheets with cream fill-
ing. Spread the top with confectioners' frosting. When ready
to serve, cut in blocks two inches wide by four inches long.
610
ORANGE TARTS
2 oranges
1 tablespoon butter
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 teaspoon corn-starch
Beat together the juice of the two oranges and the grated
rind of one, the sugar and melted butter. Add corn-starch
stirred into the lemon-juice and bake in tart shells.
PEACH DUMPLINGS WITH WHIPPED CREAM
Pare freestone peaches, cut hole in ends and carefully remove
stones. Wrap in circular pieces of puff paste rolled to 1/4 inch
thickness and tuck in the paste where the stones were removed.
Bake in hot oven (450° F.). Before serving, fill holes with
sweetened and flavored whipped cream.
PASTRY PINWHEELS
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 tablespoons shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
2/3 cup milk
Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar together. Cut in
shortening. Beat egg and add milk. Add to dry ingredients
to make a soft dough. Turn out on floured board and knead
gently or pat and fold 4-6 times. Roll out 1/8 inch thick. Cut
with pastry cutter into 3-inch squares, then diagonally from
each corner towards center, making cuts about 1-inch long.
Place a teaspoonful of jam in center. Fold corners toward
center, pinwheel fashion. Bake on cookie sheet 12 minutes in
hot oven (450° F.).
PEEK-A-BOOS
Cut thin pie-crust in rounds about three inches in diameter.
Prick one-half of the rounds with a fork. In each of the other
rounds cut three holes, to form a triangle, using a thimble or
some other small cutter. Bake in a quick oven (450° F.) .
Spread jelly on the pricked rounds, cover with the perforated
ones, putting in extra jelly through the holes. Sprinkle with
powdered sugar.
FRENCH RECIPES
The Institute secured these excellent recipes directly from French
kitchens. They have been selected for those who are interested in real
French dishes. The secret of French cooking (except for sweets) is the
use of a whiff of garlic. Even when it does not appear in the recipe,
bowl, baking dish or food is usually rubbed with it.
PLAIN SOUP
6 tablespoons rice
2 large potatoes
Boiling water
1 large onion
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sprigs water cress
1 medium-sized carrot
1 tablespoon butter
4 medium-sized turnips
2 cups milk
ASH the rice and add to rapidly boiling salted water.
Clean and pare the vegetables, cut them in small pieces
and add to the rice. Boil together for five or ten minutes, add-
ing more water if necessary, then cover the pan and simmer the
mixture gently until it is well cooked, and the water is reduced.
Add the butter and milk-and serve very hot.
GREEN SOUP
2 bunches water cress
2 slices bread
2 diced potatoes
2 tablespoons butter or other
2 hard-cooked egg-yolks
fat
Cook the water cress until almost done, then add potatoes
and cook until they are soft. Press through a sieve and add
the purée to the water in which it was cooked. Brown the
bread slightly in one tablespoon of the fat, and cut into small
cubes. Add the minced egg-yolks and the remaining table-
spoon of butter or other fat to the soup, season to taste, add
the cubes of bread and serve hot.
ECONOMICAL VEGETABLE SOUP
Cut equal quantities of any left-over vegetables, such as
carrots, turnips, green peppers, potatoes, celery, string beans,
into small pieces. Brown them in a frying-pan with some but-
615
616
ter or other fat, add enough hot water to cover, season with
salt and pepper, and cook until tender. Drain, press through
a sieve and return the pulp to the water in which the vegetables
were boiled. Serve hot with small squares of toasted bread.
Canned vegetables may be used.
CODFISH WITH BROWN SAUCE
2 cups salt codfish
1 clove garlic, chopped
6 tablespoons cooking-oil
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
3 tablespoons flour
Few grains nutmeg
1 1/2 cups water
1/4 teaspoon paprika
Soak codfish in cold water over night. Drain and fry in oil
until slightly browned. Add flour and brown. Add water
and seasonings, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Serve fish
on platter surrounded by border of rice or potatoes.
CODFISH A LA BENEDICTINE
1 pound fresh codfish
Butter or other fat
4 medium-sized sweet potatoes
Juice of 1 lemon
Salt
1 cup cream or milk
Pepper
Bread-crumbs
Boil the codfish, drain it and keep it warm.
Pare the sweet potatoes, cook them in salted water or steam
them and let them dry, then mash and add a pinch of pepper,
two tablespoons of butter or other fat, the juice of half a lemon,
and one cup of cream or milk.
Skin the fish and remove the bones. Pound it rather fine;
add a tablespoon of butter or other fat and the juice of half
a lemon. Mix the hot mashed potatoes with this. Add more
milk or cream, enough to make a rough dough. Grease a bak-
ing-dish, and put the dough into it. Cover the top with bread-
crumbs and melted butter. Put small dots of butter here and
there on the top and bake in the oven (350° F .) for twenty
minutes. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked.
FRENCH RECIPES
617
CODFISH, BRANDADE STYLE
1 pound salt codfish
1 cup milk
1 diced potato
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons table oil
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
Soak the codfish over night, then put it in a saucepan of cold
water, add the potato and cook on a quick fire. When it is
on the point of boiling, reduce the heat and cook slowly, stir-
ring constantly with a wooden spoon. Add the oil, drop by
drop, and the milk. When it thickens it has been cooked long
enough. Add the salt, pepper and lemon-juice, and serve hot.
CRAB A LA CREOLE
12 small live hard-shell crabs
4 tablespoons butter or other
or 1/2 pound crab-meat
fat
3 tablespoons lemon-juice
1 teaspoon salt
2 red peppers
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Boil the crabs twenty minutes; open and clean them and
reserve the yellow fat. Pour the lemon-juice over the crab-
meat. Melt the butter or other fat and the crab fat in a fry-
ing-pan and add the crab-meat, seasoning, and chopped peppers.
Cook for twenty minutes.
CRABS WITH RICE
15 small crabs
1 tablespoon butter or other
1 cup rice
fat
2 or 3 small onions
Salt and pepper
2 small carrots
Clean the crabs. Cut off and crush the legs, and cook in
boiling salted water for about an hour. Strain the juice and
pour it over the rice. Let stand for half an hour and then
cook until rice is tender. Cook the chopped onion and carrots
in the fat until slightly browned and then add the crab-meat.
Season with salt and pepper, add the rice and cook together for
several minutes. Serve hot.
This is an old provincial recipe and has a particularly delicious
taste that makes it a favorite.
618
SALMON A LA MORNAY
4 cooked potatoes
Buttered crumbs
1/2 cup Swiss cheese
1 cup medium white sauce
1 egg-yolk
2 cups boiled salmon
Mash the potatoes and line a greased baking-dish with them.
Add the cheese and egg-yolk to the white sauce and pour half
of it over the potatoes. Add the fish and cover it with the
remaining sauce and buttered bread-crumbs. Bake in the oven
(350° F.) for twenty minutes.
FISH FRITTERS
1 pound of small fish
Salt and pepper
3 eggs
Minced garlic
3 tablespoons flour
Minced parsley
Cook the fish and mash them. Beat the yolks of the eggs
until light and thick then add, little by little, the flour, salt,
pepper, the minced garlic and parsley, and the fish. Lastly add
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Drop spoonfuls of
this mixture into hot fat (360°-370° F.) and fry to a golden
brown.
CREOLE FISH
1 1/2 pounds fish
Salt and pepper
1 lemon
1/2 cup tomato-juice
1 teaspoon butter or other
Grated lemon-rind
fat
1 small pimiento
Finely chopped onion
6 tablespoons rice
Select a fish with firm flesh, clean the skin and rub well with
a
slice of lemon. Melt the fat, add the onion and the fish and
cook to a golden brown. Season with salt and pepper, add the
tomato-juice, a bit of lemon-rind, and the pimiento finely cut.
While the fish is cooking, cook the rice in boiling salted water
until tender. Make a crown of rice on a platter, place the
fish in the center, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with thin
slices of lemon.
FISH LOAF
2 cups cooked fish
2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup thick white sauce
Drain the fish and tear into small bits. Add the salt, the
beaten egg-yolks, the white sauce, and the beaten egg-whites.
FRENCH RECIPES
619
Pour into a greased baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven
(350°-400° F.) for twenty or thirty minutes.
FISH EN COQUILLES
1 cup left-over fish
1 chopped onion
8 mussels or clams
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
3 tablespoons butter or other
10 tablespoons milk
fat
1 clove garlic
Buttered crumbs
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
Chop the fish with the mussels or clams. Add the crumbs
which have been soaked in two tablespoons of milk, and the
garlic, parsley, onions, salt and pepper. Melt the fat and when
hot add the mixture and cook several minutes. Stir in one-
half cup of milk and fill small ramekins or scallop shells. Cover
with buttered crumbs and bake in a moderate oven (350°-400°
F.) about fifteen minutes. Serve the dishes on a platter or on
individual plates.
CASSEROLE OF SAUSAGE AND CORN
7 Vienna sausages
-
1 1/2 cups cracker crumbs
1 No. 2 can whole grain corn
2 cups medium white sauce
1/2 green pepper
Cut sausages in short lengths and mix with corn and chopped
pepper, season to taste. Make sauce by melting 1/4 cup butter,
adding 1/4 cup flour and 2 cups milk. In a baking dish place
layers of crumbs, corn mixture and sauce. Top with buttered
crumbs and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Serves 5.
PORK LIVER LOAF
1 pound pork liver
1 egg
1 onion
1 1/2 tablespoons flour
Parsley
Salt and pepper
1 cup milk
Nutmeg
Chop the liver, onion and parsley together until they are
minced very fine. Add the milk and egg, flour and seasonings.
Mix well, shape into a loaf, place in a baking-pan and bake in
a moderate oven (375° F.) for an hour and a quarter.
FRENCH RECIPES
621
PORK LIVER WITH RICE
1 pound pork liver
2 or 3 sliced carrots
1/4 pound sliced bacon
2 sliced onions
1/2 cup rice
Salt and pepper
3 tablespoons chopped parsley
Fry the liver with the bacon until brown, then add the rice
which has been soaked in water for one-half hour. Cover with
hot water or stock, add the parsley, carrots and onions, salt and
pepper. Simmer slowly until tender, about forty minutes.
HAM LOAF
1/4 pound lean ham
1/4 pound grated cheese
2 tablespoons flour
3 eggs
2 cups milk
Salt and pepper
Cook the ham and chop it fine. Mix the flour with the milk
and cook for a few minutes; then add the ham, cheese, the egg-
yolks slightly beaten, and the stiffly beaten egg-whites. Season
with salt and pepper, pour into a mold, set the mold in a pan
of hot water and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) until
firm (20-30 minutes) This may be served with or without a
thin white sauce.
BEEF HASH A LA NORMANDIE
3 onions
1/2 cup cooked potatoes
1 tablespoon fat
1/2 cup meat stock
2 cups cold boiled beef
Salt and pepper
Cut the onions into cubes and fry in the fat until brown.
Slice the beef and add to the onions, then add the potatoes and
stock. Season and cook about fifteen minutes.
FRENCH RISSOLES
2 cups chopped veal or
1 cup water
chicken (white meat)
1 tablespoon melted butter or
1 onion
other fat
Salt and pepper
4 cups flour
1 egg
Chop the onion and add it to the meat. Season with salt and
pepper. Mix this well with the yolk of the egg.
622
Mix together the water, a little salt, the white of the egg
and the melted fat. Pile up the flour, make a well in the center
and pour in, little by little, the liquid mixture. Work the
dough thoroughly until it is smooth, then cut it in slices and
roll out into thin strips with a rolling-pin.
Place the chopped meat here and there on these strips and
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion. Fold
the strips in the center and press the edges together. Cut with
a small biscuit-cutter, making small rissoles. Boil these in
slightly salted water for five minutes, remove them from the
water, drain, and put them in the oven (400° F.) for ten
minutes to form a yellow crust on top. Serve hot.
SAUCE FOR COLD MEAT AND FISH
4 tablespoons salad oil
Mustard
4 tablespoons cream
Salt
3 tablespoons vinegar
Pepper
Mix the salad oil, cream, vinegar, a little mustard, salt and
pepper. Beat together quickly, with an egg-beater. The sauce
gets white quickly and looks like whipped cream. Soon it
becomes as thick as the best-made mayonnaise. Eggs are not
required, the sauce will not curdle, and can be made quickly.
CAMBRISSON SALAD
1 cup cooked beef
4 anchovies
2 hard-cooked eggs
1 small head lettuce
2 tomatoes
Cut the beef into small pieces, add the sliced eggs and to-
matoes, and the anchovies cut up into small pieces. Serve on
lettuce with French or mayonnaise dressing.
RAGOUT OF DUCK OR CHICKEN
2 tablespoons butter
1 sliced onion
2 tablespoons cooking oil or
1 clove garlic
fat
Sprig of parsley
1 duck or chicken
1 cup stock
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon vinegar
Clean and cut up the duck or chicken. Heat butter with
oil or drippings in a frying-pan. When hot, add the meat.
FRENCH RECIPES
623
Season with salt and pepper and cook until the meat is slightly
brown. Remove the meat and add the onion to the fat in the
pan and cook until brown, then add the garlic and parsley, the
stock and vinegar. Return the meat to the pan and simmer
slowly until tender.
Rabbit, hare, lamb or young partridge may be prepared in
the same way.
CHICKEN VICTORY
1 chicken
Thyme
2 tablespoons salad oil
1/2 bay-leaf
9 onions
3 large tomatoes
1/2 pound bacon
1 cup stock
Parsley
1/2 pound mushrooms
Prepare the chicken for roasting. While it is roasting, heat
the oil in a frying-pan, add three of the onions finely chopped,
and cook until a light brown. Add half the bacon, cut in
small pieces, the parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. When brown,
add the tomatoes cut in slices, and the stock. When all is
cooked, press through a sieve.
In another pan, brown lightly the other half of the bacon
cut in strips, the mushrooms and the six remaining onions,
chopped. Cook until everything is tender, then add the pre-
viously made sauce and the gravy from the roasted chicken,
and, if necessary, thicken with a little flour.
Cut up the chicken, arrange pieces in the center of a platter
and pour the sauce, with bacon, mushrooms and onions, around
it. Cut bread in diamond-shaped pieces, fry in the bacon fat,
and place these also around the chicken.
ASPARAGUS WITH CHEESE
1 bunch asparagus
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 cup grated cheese
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon salt
Cut asparagus in pieces and boil in salted water for ten
minutes, then place it in a baking-dish. Sprinkle with the
grated cheese and seasoning, and add the butter in small pieces.
Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
624
RED CABBAGE WITH CHESTNUTS
1 red cabbage
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon drippings
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup melted grape jelly
French chestnuts
Select a nice red cabbage, discard the outer leaves and soak
for a short time in cold water. Drain, and slice in thin shreds.
Melt the fat in a saucepan, add the jelly and the cabbage, the
water, salt and pepper. Cook very slowly until tender.
At the same time, boil some French chestnuts; take off the
skin and add them to the cabbage. Cook all slowly for about
two hours, until the liquid has evaporated.
STUFFED CABBAGE
1 cabbage
Spices
Cooking fat
1 cup bread-crumbs
Butter
3 eggs
Parsley
1 chopped onion
Place a thin piece of cheese-cloth in the bottom of a bowl
and lay the large cabbage leaves in it. Chop the middle of
the cabbage fine and sauté it in the fat until it is yellow. Re-
move it from the fire, add a little chopped parsley, spices,
bread-crumbs, eggs and onion. Place this mixture inside the
large cabbage leaves, and tie up the cabbage by tying together
the four corners of the cloth.
Place in a pan of boiling salted water and boil until the cab-
bage leaves are tender (about thirty-five minutes). When
done, remove from the cloth, pour a little melted butter over
it, and some fine bread-crumbs, and bake for five minutes.
Serve with tomato sauce.
EGGPLANT ORIENTAL
2 green peppers
6 ripe tomatoes
2 eggplants
3 teaspoons salt
3 tablespoons cooking oil
1 teaspoon paprika
Remove the seeds from the peppers, and cut the peppers into
small pieces. Pare the eggplants and cut into small pieces. Cook
the eggplant and peppers in the fat until slightly brown, then
add the tomatoes and seasonings and continue the cooking until
the eggplant is done. Serve very hot.
FRENCH RECIPES
625
LEEKS AND POTATOES AU GRATIN
12 leeks
1/2 cup grated cheese
6 potatoes
Bread-crumbs
1 cup medium white sauce
Salt and pepper
Cook the leeks in boiling water; boil and slice the potatoes;
arrange the vegetables in a baking-dish, and pour the white
sauce over them. Add the cheese, bread-crumbs and seasoning,
and bake (350° F.) for fifteen minutes.
LIMA BEANS, NEUFCHATEL STYLE
2 cups green Lima beans or 1
1/4 cup butter or other fat
cup dried Lima beans,
1 1/2 cups milk
soaked in water over night
2 egg-yolks
1 teaspoon salt
Cook beans in boiling salted water until almost tender.
Drain; add fat, salt, milk and beaten egg yolks. Turn into
casserole and bake in 350° F. oven, 20-30 minutes. Stir twice
until beans begin to brown.
MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN
1/2 pound mushrooms
1/2 cup bread-crumbs
1 sliced onion
1/16 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons cooking oil
1/4 teaspoon paprika
2 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup mushroom stock
1/2 teaspoon salt
(made from stems)
Juice of 1 lemon
Peel the mushrooms and sprinkle salt over them to extract
the water. Fry the onion in the oil. Add the flour and brown;
add the stock, the pepper, paprika, butter, salt and lemon-
juice and cook the sauce until it is thickened. Drain the mush-
rooms and add them to the sauce. Put into a baking-dish,
sprinkle with crumbs and bake until slightly browned.
POTATO PATTIES
6 potatoes
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
1 tablespoon grated Swiss
Salt
cheese
Tomato sauce
Boil the potatoes in their jackets; peel and mash them and add
flour, butter, grated cheese and salt. Mix well and shape in
626
round patties, rather thick, making a hole in the middle. Cook
in a well-greased baking-dish, in a hot oven (400°-450° F.).
When they are nicely browned pour over them tomato sauce,
and serve hot in the baking-dish.
POTATOES, PEASANT STYLE
3 cups potatoes
2 tablespoons flour
6 tablespoons bacon fat
2 cups milk
2 cloves garlic
1 teaspoon salt
'2 tablespoons parsley
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Wash, pare and cut potatoes in dice. Sauté in the bacon fat
until brown. Remove potatoes and fry the chopped garlic
and parsley in the fat remaining in the pan. Add flour, milk
and seasonings, and cook until thickened (about five minutes).
.
Add potatoes and cook three minutes.
POTATOES, JEANETTE COURRANGELLE STYLE
6 medium-sized potatoes
1 small onion
Left-over meat
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon salt
Pare the potatoes, bake in the oven until tender, then cut in
halves lengthwise. Scoop out the centers. Chop the meat, gar-
lic, onion and parsley together; add the salt, fill the potatoes
with the mixture and reheat. The pulp removed from the po-
tatoes may be seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter, and baked
in the oven with tomato sauce.
POTATO FRITTERS
3 large potatoes
Lemon or orange flavoring
3/4 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup flour
Pare the potatoes and boil in salted water. Mash them; add
the sugar and flavor with a little lemon or orange. Allow the
mixture to cool. Then add the flour and knead the dough
until it is very firm.
Spread the dough with a rolling-pin and cut it with a biscuit-
cutter. Fry in deep fat (360°-370° F.) until brown, then
drain on brown paper.
FRENCH RECIPES
627
POTATOES A L'ARCHIODOISE
4 cups potatoes, sliced thin
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 cups tomato sauce
1 teaspoon paprika
2 minced garlic cloves
Wash, pare and slice potatoes into a baking-dish. Add other
ingredients and bake (350°-400° F.) one hour and thirty min-
utes.
COOKED RADISHES WITH CHEESE
Boil small pink radishes from which the leaves have been
removed. Drain, and cook in a saucepan with butter and
grated cheese until the cheese is melted.
SPINACH WITH CHEESE
1 quart spinach
4 eggs
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 cups milk
4 tablespoons fat
1 cup Swiss cheese
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon salt
Wash and chop the spinach. Add the parsley and cook in
the fat for ten minutes. Add well-beaten eggs to the milk,
and pour over the spinach. Add cheese and seasoning; turn
into greased baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven (350°- -
400° F.) one-half hour.
SPINACH A LA REINE
1/2 tablespoon chopped onion
Salt and pepper
1/2 tablespoon fat
3 1/2 tablespoons grated cheese
1 quart spinach
3 eggs
1 tablespoon flour
6 cooked shrimps
1 cup milk
Cook the onion in the fat, add the spinach, which has been
washed and chopped, and fry quickly. Add flour and milk,
and cook until it thickens. Season with salt and pepper and
add the grated cheese. When it starts to boil remove from the
fire and add well-beaten egg-whites, then the beaten yolks,
turn into a baking-dish and bake in a very hot oven (450°-
500° F.) for ten minutes. Garnish with the shrimps.
628
TOMATOES WITH BROWN SAUCE
4 tomatoes
1 1/2 tablespoons butter or
1/2 teaspoon salt
other fat
Few grains pepper
Brown sauce
Plunge tomatoes in boiling water for one minute. Peel,
slice and put in baking-dish. Add seasoning and fat in small
pieces. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400 F.) for ten min-
utes. Add brown sauce and again bake for ten minutes.
STUFFED TOMATOES
8 tomatoes
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 medium-sized onions
1/8 teaspoon pepper
4 cloves garlic
5 tablespoons fat
1 piece thyme
2 tablespoons flour
1 bay-leaf
1/2 pound sausage-meat
Cut off the tops of the tomatoes and remove the pulp. Cook
the pulp and four of the onions chopped fine, with the season-
ings for twenty-five minutes, then add three tablespoons of
the fat mixed with the flour. Cook the mixture for twenty
minutes. Brown the rest of the fat in a pan and fry a chopped
onion in it, add the sausage-meat to it, cook for ten minutes
and add this mixture to the tomato pulp. Stuff the tomatoes
with the mixture and bake (at 350° F.) for twenty-five min-
utes. Serve in the baking-dish.
TURNIP LEAVES
Select the leaves of young turnips, wash carefully and boil
in salted water until tender. Drain, chop very fine, and season
with salt, pepper and butter. Serve hot.
TURNIPS WITH CHEESE
3 medium-sized white or
1 1/2 cups milk
yellow turnips
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/8 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup grated cheese
Peel the turnips, cut them in slices, and boil them for about
fifteen minutes in boiling salted water. Make a white sauce
FRENCH RECIPES
629
with the fat, flour, milk, salt and pepper. Pour this over the
turnips and sprinkle the grated cheese on top. Bake for ten
minutes and serve hot.
DANDELION OMELET
1 cup dandelion hearts
4 eggs
Butter or other fat
Fry the hearts of very white dandelions in butter or other
fat, and mix them with the well-beaten eggs. Cook like an
ordinary French omelet. The taste resembles an asparagus-tip
omelet.
EGGS FLORENTINE
2 quarts spinach
1 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons butter
6 hard-cooked eggs
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup tomato sauce
Wash, cook and drain the spinach and add the butter and
the seasonings. Arrange a nest of spinach at each end of a
small platter. Put three eggs in each nest and pour the tomato
sauce between the nests.
EGGS IN FRENCH STYLE
6 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 teaspoon paprika
4 tablespoons flour
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 cup milk
Bread-crumbs
Boil the eggs for five minutes; make a thick white sauce, us-
ing fat, flour, milk and seasonings. Dip the eggs into the
sauce; cool and dip into fine bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat
(375°-390° F.) until golden brown. Serve with tomato sauce.
MOLDED EGGS WITH CHEESE
3 eggs
Salt
3 cups milk
Cayenne
1/2 pound grated cheese
Parsley
Beat the eggs and milk together and add the grated cheese
and seasonings. Pour the mixture into a greased baking-dish,
set in hot water, and bake at 375° F. until it is firm. Turn out
on a platter, and garnish with chopped parsley.
630
MIMOSA EGGS
6 hard-cooked eggs
3/4 cup boiled ham
Lettuce
Mayonnaise
Cut the eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove the yolks and
stuff the whites with chopped ham. Lay the eggs on a plate
lined with lettuce leaves and cover with mayonnaise dressing.
Decorate with sifted yolks of the eggs.
EGGS AU GRATIN
1 1/2 cups milk
1/2 cup grated Swiss cheese
1 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Add milk, seasoning and cheese to slightly beaten eggs. Turn
the mixture into a greased baking-dish, set the mold in a pan
of water and bake (375° F.) twenty minutes, or until firm.
Remove from the oven; let stand three minutes and unmold
on a platter. Serve with tomato sauce.
CHEESE OMELET SOUFFLE
2 tablespoons butter or other
Salt and pepper
fat
1/4 pound grated cheese
4 tablespoons flour
3 eggs
1 cup milk
Put the fat and flour into a pan and when blended add the
hot milk, the salt and pepper, and the grated cheese, stirring
quickly to melt the cheese. When the mixture is getting cool,
add first the yolks, then the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs.
Put the mixture into a greased baking-dish, set in a pan of hot
water and bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) 45 to 50 minutes.
Serve at once.
CHEESE TOAST
1 egg
1/4 pound grated cheese
1 1/2 tablespoons cream
Salt and pepper
1 1/2 tablespoons flour
Slices of bread
Mix first five ingredients well together and work the mix-
ture until firm. Spread this mixture on slices of bread two
FRENCH RECIPES
63I
and one-half inches thick. Fry in deep hot fat (375° - -390° F.)
putting the cheese side down first; then turn over. Remove
when the toast is a golden brown. This dish is quickly made,
delicious and not costly.
GNOCCHI
4 tablespoons butter or other
3 eggs
fat
Salt and pepper
1 cup milk
2 ounces grated cheese
2 cups flour
1 cup medium white sauce
Melt the fat in a pan. Put in the milk, bring to a boil, and
add the sifted flour. Stir six to nine minutes. Let it cool
slightly; then work in the eggs, one at a time, beat well, and
season to taste. Add the grated cheese. Put the dough on the
board or on a platter and cut into squares or small fingers.
Drop these into boiling salted water and poach them for
about ten minutes. When they are cooked, drain them and
place in a baking-dish. Pour over them the white sauce to
which may be added, if desired, one ounce of grated cheese,
and put the dish in the oven (250°-350° F.) for fifteen min-
utes. Serve hot. The gnocchi can also be served with tomato
sauce.
EGGS WITH BLACK BUTTER
(Oeufs au Beurre Noir)
2 eggs
1 tablespoon clarified
1 tablespoon wine vinegar
butter
1 teaspoon parsley, finely chopped
Multiply the quantities given by the number of persons to be
served. Poach the eggs in water to which a little vinegar has
been added. Remove while still soft and place in a dish in the
oven to finish cooking. Heat the vinegar until it is half its
original quantity; then pour it over the eggs. Simmer the butter
for a few minutes in a pan. Add parsley and continue cooking
until both butter and parsley are browned. Pour over eggs and
serve at once.
632
Cakes and Puddings
FRENCH CAKE
1 cup sugar
3 cups flour
1 egg
1 teaspoon soda
2 teaspoons cocoa
1 tablespoon melted grape
1 teaspoon cinnamon
jelly
2 cups milk or cream
Nuts
Beat together the sugar and egg, then add the cocoa and
cinnamon and the milk or cream very slowly. Stir in the flour,
then add the soda, dissolved in the jelly. Pour into a loaf-pan
and scatter some nuts over the top. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°-400° F.) about forty minutes.
FONDANT CAKE
3/4 cup cream
2 cups flour
2 eggs
Chopped almonds or grated
2 cups powdered sugar
lemon-rind
Cover the bottom of a shallow cake-pan with oiled paper.
Blend cream, eggs, sugar and flour and pour into the pan.
Sprinkle some finely chopped almonds or some grated lemon-
rind on top of the cake. Bake in a moderate oven (350°-400°
F.) for twenty or thirty minutes. It is preferable served hot.
CHESTNUT DESSERT
2 pounds chestnuts
4 or 5 apples
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon vanilla
2 tablespoons apricot jelly
Blanch and peel the chestnuts and cook until soft, then rub
through a sieve. Make a sirup of the sugar and water, add
the vanilla and chestnuts and stir until the mixture is smooth.
Place in a ring on a plate. Cook the apples until soft, mash
them, add the butter, cinnamon, and apricot jelly. Put this
mixture in the center of the chestnut ring and garnish with
preserved fruits.
FRENCH RECIPES
633
APPLES BAKED WITH BREAD
Remove the cores from good-sized apples; fill with jam and
butter. Place round slices of stale bread in a baking-dish and
put an apple on each. Pour scalded milk and water over the
bread. Bake until the apples are soft. Serve in the baking-
dish.
MOCHA PUDDING
1/3 cup butter or other fat
3/4 cup cold strong coffee
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
3 egg-yolks
12 lady fingers
Cream the fat and add sugar gradually, then the egg-yolks.
Add coffee little by little, and vanilla. If coffee is added
quickly, the mixture will curdle. Line a mold with the lady
fingers. Turn the mocha mixture into the middle, and chill.
Unmold and serve on a platter.
SOUR MILK PUDDING
1 quart sour milk
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
3 eggs
4 tablespoons granulated
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
sugar
Heat the milk slowly until it separates, and drain the whey
from the curd. Add the eggs, powdered sugar, and lemon-
juice to the curd, and beat thoroughly. Caramelize the granu-
lated sugar and pour it into a mold. Add the curd mixture
and bake the pudding for twenty minutes.
MOLDED CHOCOLATE PUDDING
1/2 cake sweet chocolate or 3
2 tablespoons gelatin
squares bitter chocolate
2 egg-whites
2 tablespoons sugar
Marshmallow whip
3 cups milk
Cherries
Melt the chocolate and sugar in the milk in a double boiler.
Add the gelatin, previously soaked in three tablespoons of
water. Pour the mixture into a wet mold and let it stand in
a cool place until the pudding is firm. Turn the pudding on
to a glass dish and garnish it with beaten egg-whites mixed with
marshmallow whip. Place a cherry in the center of each mound
of garnish.
634
RICE CROWN WITH APRICOTS
Cook rice in milk and put in a buttered ring mold. When
cool, turn into a fruit-dish. Cook dried apricots and place
halves around the top of the crown. Strain the remainder of
the fruit through a fine sieve and pour in the hollow of the
crown. If this dish is desired hot, put the mold in the oven
for a few minutes before trimming it with the apricots.
BREAD PUDDING
6 or 8 slices stale bread
1/2 cup seeded raisins
Salt
1 quart milk
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon cinnamen
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon lemon extract
Dip slices of stale bread in slightly salted water until they
are soft. Drain and put into a bowl, adding the well-beaten
eggs, the sugar, and the seeded raisins. Scald the milk, flavor
it with the cinnamon and lemon extract, pour it over the bread,
and fill a greased pudding-dish with the mixture. Set in a pan
of hot water and cook in the oven (250°-350° F.) from forty-
five to sixty minutes. Serve with hard sauce.
APPLE MERINGUE PUDDING
Toasted bread
Sugar
Hot milk
Nutmeg
1 dozen apples
3 eggs
Cover the bottom and sides of a baking-pan with toasted
bread, wet with hot milk. Core the apples and cook them
whole; sweeten with sugar and flavor with nutmeg. Beat the
yolks of the eggs together with a little sugar and pour over the
apples. Put the apples in the baking-pan over the bread, then
cover with the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a
slow oven (300°-350° F.) for a few minutes.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
64I
COCOA
2 to 3 tablespoons cocoa
1 to 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup water
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 quart milk
Stir cocoa, sugar and either hot or cold water together and
boil over the fire for five minutes; add salt. Scald the milk in
a double boiler; add to the cocoa mixture and stir until well
blended. Or, add cold milk to the cocoa mixture after boiling
for five minutes and let it stand over hot water until hot and
well blended. Beat with a rotary egg-beater to make foamy
before serving. Whipped cream or marshmallows may be served
with cocoa.
CHOCOLATE
2 squares unsweetened
3 tablespoons sugar
chocolate
3 tablespoons water
4 cups milk
Scrape the chocolate fine, mix it with the water and heat
over hot water until the chocolate is melted. Bring the milk
to the scalding point (in a double boiler), add the chocolate
and the sugar, stir until-dissolved and whip with an egg-beater
until the beverage is light and frothy.
ICED CHOCOLATE
Make chocolate or cocoa as usual; cool and serve in tall glasses
with chopped ice, topped with sweetened whipped cream.
RECEPTION CHOCOLATE
1 quart milk
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup cocoa
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 quart water
Mix dry ingredients and make a smooth paste with some of
the water. Pour on the remainder of the water and boil slowly
for fifteen minutes. Combine with the milk, bring to the boil-
ing-point. Add vanilla. Serve with whipped cream. This is
a very thick, rich cocoa which is improved by standing over
hot water an hour or more.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
643
SUGAR SIRUP
4 cups sugar
4 cups water
Boil sugar and water together for ten minutes. Pour into
clean hot jars and seal. This sirup may be kept on hand and
used as needed.
No. 1.
LEMONADE
6 lemons
3 cups water
1 to 1 1/2 cups sugar sirup
Squeeze the juice from the fruit. Mix well with the sirup
and water. Serve very cold.
No. 2.
6 lemons
4 cups water
1/2 to 2/3 cup sugar
Squeeze the juice from the lemons and mix with the water
and sugar. See that the sugar is well dissolved.
VARIATIONS OF LEMONADE
APPLE LEMONADE-Wash apples and dice, using everything,
including skin and core. Cook with enough water to cover,
strain through a cloth and add one cup sugar for each cup of
juice thus obtained. Dissolve sugar in the juice and cool. Fill
glasses half full of this apple sirup, add to each glass the juice
of half a lemon and fill up with ice and water.
BERRY LEMONADE-To each glass of lemonade add two
tablespoons of crushed fresh or canned berries-strawberries,
raspberries, blackberries, loganberries or blueberries. Seedy
fruits should be strained. Garnish with whole berries and
serve with crushed ice.
CURRANT LEMONADE-
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
4 cups currants
Lemons
Cook the sugar with the currants until the fruit is soft. Add
the water, strain and cool. Allow one-half lemon and one-half
glass of currant sirup for each serving. Fill glasses with ice
and water.
EGG LEMONADE, No. 1-For each glass use one beaten egg;
644
add the juice of one lemon and one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg.
Fill glass with chilled water; shake well and serve.
No. 2-Into a tall glass half full of crushed ice put a spocn-
ful of chopped fruit, pineapple, peaches or crushed berries.
Beat in an egg, add juice of one lemon and sugar to taste. Fill
glass with plain or effervescent water and shake or stir until
very cold.
LEMON FROST-Fill a tall glass one-fourth full of cracked
ice, add lemonade fill the glass three-fourths full and frost the
top with a spoonful of stiffly beaten egg-white sweetened
slightly and flavored with lemon-juice.
LEMON GINGER-For each glass allow two tablespoons ginger
sirup, the juice of one-half lemon and two tablespoons pine-
apple-juice. Fill with cracked ice and water.
LEMON MINT-For each glass squeeze the juice of one lemon
over six or seven crushed mint leaves. Sweeten to taste and add
chopped ice, and water to fill the glass.
PINEAPPLE LEMONADE-
1 pineapple
1 cup sugar
1 quart boiling water
1 cup tea infusion
1 lemon
Wash, slice and pare the pineapple, and take out all the eyes.
Prepare the tender part to serve. Put the core, the rind and
the grated rind of the lemon in a kettle and pour on the boil-
ing water. Cover and simmer for half an hour. Strain through
cheese-cloth. Add sugar, tea and lemon-juice. Serve cold. As
some pineapples are much more sour than others, more sugar
may be necessary.
LIMEADE
Limeade is made in the same way as lemonade, using limes
instead of lemons and a little more sweetening. This is even
more refreshing than lemonade in summer.
ORANGEADE
4 oranges
1 to 1 1/2 cups sirup
1 lemon
3 cups water
Follow directions for lemonade given on the preceding page.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
645
PINEAPPLE ORANGEADE
4 oranges
1 quart boiling water
1 pineapple
Sugar or sirup
Add the juicy parts of the pineapple, shredded, to the orange-
juice. Pour the water over the fruit and sweeten to taste.
Cover and set aside to cool. Strain and serve iced. Blood
oranges will give the mixture an attractive pink color.
No. 1.
MIXED FRUIT PUNCH
1 quart blue grape-juice
Sugar or sirup to taste
1 pint white grape-juice
2 quarts ginger ale
Juice of 12 oranges
1 pint charged water
Juice of 12 lemons
Mix fruit and sugar or sirup. Add ginger ale and charged
water and serve with chopped ice. This will serve twenty-five
people.
No. 2.
1 1/2 cups water
Juice of 6 lemons
1 1/2 cups sugar
Juice of 6 oranges
1 quart grape-juice
1 pint tea
2 quarts chilled water
1 pint grated pineapple
Boil water and sugar ten minutes. Cool and add other in-
gredients and let stand one hour. Add chilled water and serve
with chipped ice. This will serve twenty-five people.
No. 3.
2 cups water
1 cup white grapes
2 cups sugar
1 cup maraschino cherries
1 cup pineapple
Juice of 6 oranges
1 cup strawberries
Juice of 6 lemons
1 cup raspberries
2 quarts charged water
1 cup bananas
Boil water and sugar ten minutes. Cool and add crushed
fruit and fruit-juice. Chill. Add charged water just before
serving. This will serve twenty-five people.
646
GINGER ALE PUNCH
Juice of 4 lemons
Sugar or sirup to taste
1 pint grape-juice
1 quart ginger ale
Mix fruit-juices and sugar or sirup. Just before serving, add
ginger ale.
GINGER PUNCH
1 quart water
1/4 cup ginger sirup
1 cup sugar
1 cup orange-juice
3/4 cup chopped Canton
1/4 cup lemon-juice
ginger
1 quart charged water
Boil water, sugar, ginger and ginger sirup for twenty minutes.
Cool. Add fruit-juices and charged water gradually.
GRAPE JUICE PUNCH
1 cup sugar sirup
Juice of 1 orange
1 pint water
1 pint grape-juice
Juice of 3 lemons
Mix ingredients in order given. Chill and serve.
LEMON PUNCH
Juice of 6 lemons
1/2 cup mashed strawberries
Juice of 3 oranges
1/2 cup crushed pineapple
1 quart water
Mix fruit-juice, sweeten to taste with sirup, add water and
crushed fruit. Garnish with very thin slices of orange.
PARADISE ISLAND PUNCH
1/2 cup sirup
Juice of 1/2 grapefruit
1 quart pineapple-juice
1/2 cup crushed pineapple
Juice of 2 oranges
1/2 cup crushed strawberries
Juice of 1 lemon
Proceed as for lemon punch.
RASPBERRY PUNCH
1 lemon
1 pint boiling water
1 cup raspberries
1 cup sugar
1 cup currants
1 cup tea infusion
Crush fruit and strain through a cloth. Without taking the
pulp from the cloth, put it into another dish and pour the
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
647
boiling water over it. Drain off, but do not squeeze or it will
be muddy. Add the sugar and stir until it is dissolved. Cool
thoroughly before adding the fruit-juice and tea.
VERANDA PUNCH
Juice of 3 lemons
1 cup tea infusion
Juice of 2 oranges
1 pint ginger ale
1/2 cup sugar sirup
1 pint charged water
Mix fruit-juice and sugar sirup. Add the hot tea. Cool,
and, when ready to serve, add ginger ale and charged water.
Thin slices of lemon and orange may be used for a garnish.
LOGANBERRY COCKTAIL
2 cups loganberry-juice
1 cup water
1 cup orange-juice
1/4 cup sirup
Juice of 1 lemon
Proceed as in lemon punch.
MOCK CLARET CUP
Small stick of cinnamon bark
1 cup currant-juice
3 lemons
Sugar sirup
5 oranges
1/4 cup currants
1 pint water
1 cup tea infusion
Boil cinnamon, lemon-rinds and orange-rinds in the water for
ten minutes. Strain, and when cool add other ingredients in-
cluding the juice of the lemons and oranges. Serve in a tall
glass and garnish with currants.
CHILLED GRAPE JUICE
Wash purple grapes and boil until skin, pulp and seeds
separate. Press through jelly-bag and to every pint of juice
add one-half cup of sugar. Boil for twenty minutes, chill and
serve with shaved ice.
GRAPE JUICE HIGHBALL
Use Niagara grapes. Proceed as for recipe for chilled grape-
juice. Serve in tall glasses half filled with shaved ice and add
an equal quantity of charged water. Lemon is an attractive
addition.
648
GRAPE-JUICE RICKY
For each glass mix the juice of one-half lime with one-half
glass of grape-juice and two tablespoons of sugar. Shake in a
mixer with crushed ice. Fill glass with plain or charged water.
ORANGE LILY
1/2 cup white grape-juice
2 tablespoons orange-juice
1 teaspoon sugar
Fill glass half full of shaved ice. Add grape-juice, orange-
juice and sugar and fill with chilled water. Serve with two
straws thrust through a thin slice of orange.
QUAKER DRINK
3 sprigs of mint
Juice of 3 oranges
3 cups tea infusion
1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger
Juice of 3 lemons
2 cups cold water
Bruise mint. Pour the tea over the fruit-juice. Mix ginger
with two tablespoons hot water and the cold water. Mix all
ingredients. Chill and serve.
EGGNOG
1 egg
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons fruit-juice
Milk
Add salt to the egg-white and beat to a stiff froth. Add the
sugar, the well-beaten yolk of the egg and the fruit-juice. Fill
the glass with ice-cold milk. Sprinkle top with chopped nuts.
The egg-yolk and white may be beaten together rather than
separately, if desired.
MILK SHAKE
Fill a glass two-thirds full of ice-cold milk. Sweeten to taste
and flavor with two tablespoons of fruit-juice, strained pre-
serves, melted jelly or chocolate sirup. Fill the glass with finely
chopped ice. Shake well. In the absence of a regulation
"mixer" pour from one glass into another. When frothy,
sprinkle with cinnamon or nutmeg.
HOT AND COLD BEVERAGES
649
MILK PUNCH
2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup milk
1/4 cup charged water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix sugar, vanilla and milk. Stir well and add the water.
Pour this mixture from one bowl to another to froth it. Hold
the bowl high as you pour the liquid. When it is frothy, pour
it into a tumbler and serve.
ICE CREAM PUFF
Break an egg into a mixing-glass and add four tablespoons of
any preferred fruit sirup and a serving of vanilla ice-cream.
Shake until well mixed, fill with carbonated water and sprinkle
with nutmeg. Extra ice-cream may be added just before serv-
ing.
ORANGE MILK SHAKE
2 1/2 cups orange juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups grapefruit juice
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup evaporated milk
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup water
1 cup cracked ice
Combine all ingredients as listed, in a shaker; shake until well
mixed.
COFFEE-EGG MILK SHAKE-Use 3 cups cold strong coffee, 3
eggs, well beaten, 6 cups chilled milk, 6 tablespoons cream,
sugar to taste and dash of salt. Add enough iced carbonated
water to each glass to foam mixture to the top.
COFFEE-CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE-Use 1 1/2 cups cold strong
coffee, 3/4 cup chocolate sauce (page 580) and 7 cups milk. Top
each glass with 1 tablespoon whipped cream, if desired.
ICED COFFEE SHAKE-Use 3 cups cold strong coffee, 3 drops
almond extract, 2 cups chilled milk, 2 cups Apollinaris water
and powdered sugar to taste. Top each glass with sweetened
whipped cream and dust with cinnamon.
For additional beverage recipes including wines see pages 737
to 757.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
689
Seal them in clean, hot jars. Golden wax beans, the stems of
Swiss chard, or very small carrots may be pickled in the same
way.
CUCUMBER PICKLES
100 cucumbers
2 teaspoons salt
Vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 ounce mustard seed
2 red peppers
1 ounce cloves
Use the smallest cucumbers you can procure, making two and
one-half inches the limit of length. Put the spices in thin
muslin bags, using at least two bags. Place the cucumbers in a
kettle with enough good vinegar of medium strength to cover
them. Place the bags of spices in the vinegar, together with
the salt and sugar, and the peppers cut in rings. Heat the vine-
gar as slowly as possible; when it is scalding hot but not boiling,
the pickles are ready to set away. If this recipe is carefully fol-
lowed, satisfactory results will be obtained. If the vinegar
boils, the pickles will soften.
RIPE CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLES
8 large ripe cucumbers
3 pounds sugar
1/8 pound stick cinnamon
1 1/2 pints vinegar
1 ounce whole cloves
Pare the cucumbers, quarter and take out the seeds, then
cut the quarters into medium-sized pieces. Scald in salted water
(two tablespoons salt to one quart water), then drain and sim-
mer in clear water until they are tender but firm. Drain well.
Tie the spices in a bag and boil them with the vinegar and the
sugar for five minutes. Pour this mixture over the cucumbers,
cover the jar and set away. The next day pour off the sirup,
boil for ten minutes and pour over the cucumbers again. Flavor
is improved by repeating this process several times. Place the
pickles in clean, hot jars and seal.
GREEN CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLES
No. 1.
Sweet cucumber pickles made by the following recipe will
keep for several years without being sealed.
Choose very small cucumbers. Soak them in weak brine
(two tablespoons salt to one quart water) over night. Next
690
morning remove the cucumbers, scald the brine and skim it,
turn it over the pickles again and let them stand for two days.
Repeat this process on the third morning and let the pickles
stand two days longer. Then scald the brine each morning
until the eighth day, removing the pickles and pouring the hot
brine over them each time. On the eighth day, remove the
pickles from the brine, cover them with spiced vinegar, heat
thoroughly, and place them in clean, hot jars.
No. 2.
7 pounds cucumbers
1 tablespoon allspice
1 ounce cinnamon
1 quart vinegar
2 ounces cloves
3 pounds sugar
Pare, quarter and seed large cucumbers. Wash thoroughly,
then soak for four days in salt and water (two tablespoons salt
to one quart water), changing the brine every day. Put the
spices in a bag. Boil the cucumbers with the vinegar, sugar and
spice until the cucumbers are clear. It is best to watch care-
fully and remove each piece when it is clear. Pack in clean, hot
jars and seal.
MUSTARD PICKLES
1 pint cucumbers, about 2
3 green peppers, chopped
inches long
1 cup small carrots, or sliced
1 pint large cucumbers, sliced
carrots halved or quartered
1 pint pickling onions
1 1/4 cups white sugar
1 cup string beans, cut di-
4 tablespoons flour
agonally in 1-inch pieces
1/2 tablespoon turmeric
1 pint small green tomatoes
1 teaspoon celery salt
1 pint cauliflower, cut in
Vinegar
small pieces
4 tablespoons powdered
3 red peppers, chopped
mustard
All the vegetables should be tender. Soak all the vegetables
in brine (one cup salt to one gallon water) over night. Drain
and soak them in clear water for three hours. Mix a sufficient
amount of vinegar and water, in equal quantities, to cover the
vegetables. Allow them to stand in this vinegar for one hour,
then scald them in this liquid.
Make a dressing by mixing the sugar, flour, mustard, turmeric
and celery salt and adding three pints of hot vinegar slowly,
stirring to make a smooth paste. Cook the mixture over a pan
of hot water until the sauce thickens.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
69I
Drain the vegetables thoroughly. Pour the mustard dressing
over them while they are hot, and simmer them for five min-
utes. Pack the pickle into hot, clean jars and seal.
DILL PICKLES
Choose cucumbers over five inches in length. Wash them
well and pack them in earthenware jars or wooden casks. On
each layer of cucumbers place a thin layer of dill, stalks, leaves
and seed balls included. When all are packed in, cover them
with a brine solution carrying forty per cent. salt (approxi-
mately two pounds salt to three quarts water). Place a layer
of grape or horseradish leaves on top and weigh the whole down
with a clean plate and stone. Two or three weeks will be re-
quired for curing.
SPANISH TOMATOES
24 green tomatoes, sliced
1 tablespoon peppercorns
1 large onion
1 tablespoon mustard seed
2 green peppers
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup salt
2 quarts vinegar
Alternate layers of sliced tomatoes with layers of sliced onion
and chopped green peppers, in a large crock, and sprinkle each
layer with salt. Let stand twenty-four hours, then drain. Put
the vegetables in a preserving-kettle, add the spices and sugar
and cover with the vinegar. Cook gently for forty-five min-
utes. Pack in clean, hot jars and seal.
PICKLED ONIONS
Peel small onions until the white is reached. Scald in strong
salted water (four tablespoons salt to one quart water), then
drain. Pack in jars and sprinkle white mustard and pepper
over the onions. Cover them with a boiling hot solution of
vinegar. When cold, put in clean, cold jars and seal. One
tablespoon of salad oil may be added to the top of the mixture.
PICKLED SWEET RED PEPPERS
Wash the outside of the peppers thoroughly and wipe them
dry. Cut a slice from the stem end and remove the seeds. Cut
into thin strips with the scissors, or into long ribbons, working
692
around and around the pepper. Scald well and then drop into
ice-water to crisp them. Drain well. Make a sirup, using a
proportion of one cup of sugar to two cups of vinegar. Put the
peppers into clean, hot jars, fill to overflowing with hot sirup,
and seal.
PEPPER MANGOES
Green peppers
2 tablespoons white mustard
Brine
seed
1 quart chopped cabbage
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon salt
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cloves
Vinegar
Remove the stem ends of green peppers, carefully extract the
seeds and midribs and lay the peppers in strongly salted water
(one-half cup salt to two quarts water) for twenty-four hours.
Chop the cabbage fine and add the salt, mustard seed, cloves,
cinnamon and sugar, mixing them well. Drain the peppers,
stuff them with the prepared cabbage, replace the pepper caps
and tie them in position. Pack the peppers in a stone jar and
cover them with strong cold vinegar. They will be ready to
use in two or three weeks.
PICKLED SECKEL PEARS
7 pounds Seckel pears
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 pint vinegar
1 tablespoon allspice
1 pint water
1 tablespoon cloves
3 1/2 pounds sugar
Pare the fruit, remove the blossom end, but leave the stem on.
Make a sirup of the vinegar, water, sugar and spice, boiled for
five minutes. Add the fruit and cook until clear. Seal in hot,
clean jars.
GINGER PEARS
5 pounds hard pears
1/3 cup preserved ginger
3 cups water
3 lemons, juice and grated
5 pounds sugar
rind
Remove the skin and cores from the pears and cut the fruit
in slices lengthwise. Add the water and cook until the pears
are tender. Add the sugar, juice and grated rind of the
lemons, the ginger cut in small pieces, and simmer the mixture
until it is thick. Pour into clean, hot jars and seal.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
693
PICKLED CITRON
2 pounds citron
1 lemon
2 pounds sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 pint vinegar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 pint water
1 teaspoon allspice
Pare the citrons, and cut in medium thin slices. Soak over
night in salt water (two tablespoons salt to one quart water)
.
Drain off the brine and cook the citron in clear water until it is
tender. Add the citron to the hot pickling solution made from
the vinegar, sugar and spices, and boil it rapidly until it be-
comes clear. Seal it in hot, clean jars.
SPICED CURRANTS
4 quarts currants
1 teaspoon allspice
2 pounds white sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 pint vinegar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
Stem the fruit, and wash it. Make a sirup of the sugar, vine-
gar and spices and boil for five minutes. Add the fruit and
cook until the mixture is thick and clear. Seal in clean, hot
jars.
SPICED PLUMS
4 quarts plums
1 pint vinegar
3 pounds sugar
1 tablespoon cloves
1 tablespoon ground cinna-
1 tablespoon allspice
mon
Make a sirup from the vinegar, sugar and spices. Boil for
five minutes. Prick each plum with a fork and pour the boiling
sirup over the fruit. Let the whole stand three days, then skim
out the plums, boil down the sirup until quite thick, add the
plums and heat to boiling. Seal in clean, hot jars.
PICKLED PEACHES OR PEARS
No. 1.
4 quarts peaches or pears
1/2 ounce stick cinnamon
2 pounds white sugar
1/4 ounce whole cloves
2 cups vinegar
Dip the peaches quickly in hot water and remove the skins.
Remove skins from the pears by paring. Boil the sugar, the
694
vinegar, and the cinnamon for twenty minutes. Place a few
of the peaches at a time in the sirup, and cook them until they
are tender. Pack them into clean jars, placing a few cloves in
each jar. Adjust the rubbers, and fill each jar to overflowing
with the hot sirup. Adjust the covers, and seal the jars imme-
diately.
No. 2.
1/2 peck peaches or pears
1 pint vinegar
2 pounds brown sugar
1 ounce stick cinnamon
Cloves
Select large, firm peaches or pears and prepare as in preceding
recipe. Make a sirup by boiling the brown sugar, vinegar and
cinnamon together for five minutes. Stick two cloves in each
fruit, put them into the sirup and cook until soft. This sirup
is sufficient for a half peck of fruit, but it is better to put only
half this quantity into the sirup at a time.
PICKLED WATERMELON RIND
2 pounds watermelon-rind
1 lemon, sliced thin
2 pounds sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 pint vinegar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 pint water
1 teaspoon allspice
Soak the watermelon-rind over night in salt water (one-
fourth cup salt to one quart water). Drain off the brine. Cook
the watermelon-rind in clear water until it is tender.
Make a hot pickling solution of the other ingredients, add the
drained rind, and boil it rapidly until it becomes clear. The
spices should be tied in bags and removed before the pickle is
bottled. Seal it in clean, hot jars.
Green tomatoes, cut crosswise in thin slices, may be used
instead of the watermelon-rind.
RED PEPPER RELISH
12 red peppers
1 quart vinegar
12 green peppers
2 cups sugar
3 large onions
1 1/2 tablespoons salt
Split the peppers and remove the seeds. Chop the peppers
coarsely, pour boiling water over them and let stand for five
minutes. Drain, pour more boiling water over them, and let
PICKLES AND RELISHES
695
stand ten minutes. Drain and add the chopped onions. Boil
the vinegar, sugar, and salt for five minutes, and add all the
other ingredients. Cook the mixture ten minutes after it has
come to a boil. Pack in clean, hot glass jars.
QUICK CHRISTMAS RELISH
2 cups chopped, pickled beets
Salt and pepper
5 tablespoons horseradish
Mustard
1 cup chopped red cabbage
Vinegar from pickled beets
Mix beets, horseradish and cabbage. Moisten with the vine-
gar left from the pickled beets and season with salt and pepper,
and a little dry mustard. Toss together and serve lightly piled
in a mound.
DIXIE RELISH
1 pint chopped sweet green
2 tablespoons salt
peppers
4 tablespoons mustard seed
1 pint chopped sweet red
2 tablespoons celery seed
peppers
3 or 4 whole hot red peppers
1 quart chopped cabbage
3/4 cup sugar
1 pint white onions
1 quart vinegar
Soak green and red peppers in brine for twenty-four hours,
using one cup salt to one gallon water. Take from the brine
and freshen in clear, cold water, from one to two hours. Drain
well, cut open, remove seeds and white sections, and chop the
peppers. Put cabbage and onions through the food-chopper
separately and measure before mixing. Add chopped cabbage
and onions to chopped peppers. Add salt, spices, whole peppers,
sugar and vinegar. Let the mixture stand over night in a
covered crock or enameled vessel. Drain, and heat the liquid.
When hot add the other ingredients and cook for ten minutes.
Seal in clean, hot jars.
CORN RELISH
18 ears sweet corn
1 quart vinegar
1 small cabbage
2 cups brown sugar
1 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup salt
4 onions
3 tablespoons mustard
3 large green peppers
Blanch the corn for two minutes and cut the kernels from
the ear. Chop the cabbage, celery, onions and peppers. Com-
696
bine all the ingredients and cook until the vegetables are tender
(twenty-five to thirty minutes). Seal in clean, hot jars.
BEET RELISH
1 quart chopped cabbage
2 cups vinegar
1 quart chopped cooked beets
1 cup sugar
1 cup grated horseradish
Salt
Combine the cabbage, beets and horseradish and season with
salt. Scald the vinegar, dissolve the sugar in it and add it to
the first mixture. Cook until clear. Seal in clean, hot jars.
This is particularly good with mutton.
No. 1.
PICCALILLI
1 peck green tomatoes
1 cup sugar
6 green peppers
1 tablespoon cloves
6 onions
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 cup salt
4 tablespoons allspice
1 cup horseradish
Vinegar
Chop the tomatoes, peppers and onions very fine. Stir all
together with the salt, and let the mixture stand over night. In
the morning pour off the water, add the remaining ingredients
and cover with vinegar. Cook slowly until tender, tasting at
the last, and adding more salt if needed. Seal in clean, hot
jars.
No. 2.
1 quart green tomatoes
1/2 cup salt
1 head celery
3 cups vinegar
2 sweet red peppers
1 pound brown sugar
2 sweet green peppers
1 teaspoon mustard
2 large mild onions
1 teaspoon turmeric
1 small head cabbage
Chop the vegetables, cover with salt, and let stand over night.
In the morning, drain and press in a cloth to remove all the
liquid possible. Add the vinegar, sugar, and spices and sim-
mer until clear. Seal in clean, hot jars.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
697
No. 1.
CHOW-CHOW
4 quarts green tomatoes
1 quart vinegar
1/4 cup salt
1 cup brown or white sugar
6 small onions
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 pint cucumbers
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1 green pepper
1 tablespoon ground mustard
1 bunch celery
Chop the tomatoes, add the salt and mix. Let stand over
night. Next morning drain the tomatoes and add the onions,
cucumbers, pepper, and celery, chopped fine, the vinegar, sugar
and spices. Put the mixture in an enamel kettle, and cook
until clear. Stir well with a wooden spoon, pack in hot, clean
jars and seal.
Ground spices make a dark pickle. Whole spices may be
used; they should be tied in a cloth bag and removed before the
pickles are sealed.
No. 2.
18 green tomatoes
1/2 cup salt
8 cucumbers
2 quarts vinegar
5 dozen small green onions
1 cup brown sugar
1 pound green string-beans
2 tablespoons turmeric powder
1 cauliflower
4 tablespoons mustard seed
1 bunch celery
1 tablespoon cloves
3 chopped red peppers
1 tablespoon pepper
Dice the tomatoes, celery, and cucumbers, skin the onions and
remove the tops, cut the beans in small pieces and separate the
cauliflower into flowerets. Put all the vegetables, including the
chopped red peppers, into an earthenware crock or bowl and
sprinkle with the salt. Let stand twenty-four hours, then drain
off the liquid. Heat the vinegar with the sugar and spices
to the boiling-point, add the vegetables and cook until they
are tender. Pack the pickles in clean, hot jars and seal.
CHILI SAUCE
12 large ripe tomatoes
2 tablespoons sugar
2 large onions
1 tablespoon cinnamon
4 green peppers
2 1/2 cups vinegar
2 tablespoons salt
Peel the tomatoes and onions and chop them fine. Chop
the peppers very fine. Stir all together, and add salt, sugar,
698
cinnamon and vinegar. Boil for one hour, stirring well, and
seal in clean, hot jars. This sauce gives a delicious zest to any
sort of cold meat.
No. 1.
TOMATO CHUTNEY
4 pounds ripe tomatoes
2 cups brown sugar
1 pound pared, chopped
1 cup seeded raisins
apples
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3 onions, chopped fine
1 teaspoon mustard
1 pint strong vinegar
1/2 teaspoon cayenne
2 tablespoons salt
Chop the vegetables and then the apples. Combine the in-
gredients and cook until the chutney is thick and clear. Seal
it in hot, clean jars.
No. 2-If a hotter, more highly flavored chutney is desired,
add to the above recipe
1/2 teaspoon cayenne
2 teaspoons mustard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
12 cloves garlic
1 teaspoon cloves
CRANBERRY CATCHUP
2 1/2 pounds cranberries
1 tablespoon cinnamon
Vinegar
1 teaspoon ground cloves
2 2/3 cups sugar
Wash and pick over the cranberries. Cover them with vine-
gar and cook until they burst. Force through a sieve. Add
the other ingredients, return the mixture to the heat and sim-
mer until thick. Seal in clean, hot jars. Serve as a relish with
poultry or meat.
GRAPE CATCHUP
4 pounds grapes
2 teaspoons cloves
2 pounds sugar
2 teaspoons allspice
1 pint vinegar
2 tablespoons cinnamon
Wash the grapes and remove them from the stems. Place
them in a pan and steam them without water, until they are
soft. Put the fruit through a sieve, add the other ingredients,
and simmer the mixture for twenty minutes. Seal it in clean,
hot jars.
PICKLES AND RELISHES
699
MUSHROOM CATCHUP
10 pounds mushrooms
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 cup salt
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup vinegar
1 teaspoon horseradish
Few grains cayenne
1 small onion, chopped
Take the freshly gathered mushrooms, wipe them carefully
with a damp cloth, chop them and mix them thoroughly with
the salt. Let them stand over night. Mash them, and to this
pulp and juice add the chopped onion, spices and vinegar. Put
in a kettle and boil slowly until thick. If desired, this catchup
may be strained. If too thick, thin with vinegar. Seal in
clean, hot jars.
COLD TOMATO CATCHUP
1 peck ripe tomatoes
Pepper
1 pint vinegar
Garlic
Salt
Allspice
Cloves
This is a recipe used in the kitchen of General Washington.
Wash the tomatoes and force them through a wire sieve, then
strain through a jelly-bag. The liquid is not used in the
catchup.
Thin the pulp with the vinegar. Season with salt, pepper,
garlic, allspice, and cloves. Bottle in sterilized containers and
seal. This catchup retains the taste of the fresh tomatoes and is
an excellent flavoring for soups and sauces.
OLD VIRGINIA CATCHUP
1 peck green tomatoes
1 ounce cloves
1/2 peck white onions
1/2 cup dry mustard
3 ounces white mustard
1/4 cup water
seed
1 ounce black pepper
1 ounce allspice
1 ounce celery seed
1 pound brown sugar
Salt
Vinegar
Chop the tomatoes and onions, sprinkle with salt, and let
stand three hours. Drain well and put the pulp in a preserv-
ing-kettle with the other ingredients. Cover with vinegar, and
boil slowly for one hour. Seal in clean, hot jars. Less mustard
may be used if a less hot catchup is desired.
700
PICKLED HORSERADISH
1 cup grated horseradish
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 cups cold vinegar
To the grated horseradish add the sugar, salt and vinegar.
Mix well and seal in clean, cold jars.
TOMATO PUREE
1 gallon tomatoes
1 bay-leaf
1 small onion, sliced
2 teaspoons salt
1 stalk celery or celery leaves
1/4 teaspoon paprika
Cook the mixture until the tomatoes are tender and put it
through a strainer. Boil the pulp until it is reduced to one-
half the original volume. Seal it in hot, clean jars.
The culls left from canning tomatoes may be made into soup
or purée.
TOMATO PASTE
Spread thick tomato purée on dry plates or flat granite pans
which have been brushed with unsalted fat. As soon as a film
forms over the top, loosen the paste with a spatula, and turn
it on to a screen covered with cheese-cloth. Dry it in the sun
or a very slow oven. When it is so dry that it can be handled
without sticking, roll it in paraffin paper, fold under the ends
of the paper, and store it in a tin box or a glass jar.
The paste may be used for soup, sauces, scalloped dishes, etc.
Soak it in cold water until it is soft, before adding it to any
hot mixture. One teaspoon of the paste makes one cup of soup.
BRANDIED PEACHES
1 peck peaches, skinned
Sugar to half their weight
1 quart brandy
Alternate in stone jar, layers of peaches with sugar until
filled. Add brandy. Cover closely, using cheesecloth or un-
bleached muslin under the jar cover. Can be used after 1 week.
Keep in cool place.
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
703
and cook for three-fourths of an hour, then remove the cover
and allow the chicken to brown before serving.
PIGEONS EN CASSEROLE
Pigeons or squabs
1 Spanish onion
Bacon
Veal broth or white stock
3 tablespoons butter or other
Vegetables, as desired
fat
Flour
Clean and wash young pigeons and tie a strip of bacon around
each one, or lard the breasts if preferred. Place the butter or
other fat in a casserole, slice a mild Spanish onion over the fat,
arrange the pigeons on the onion in the casserole, cover the
casserole and set over a low heat with an asbestos mat under
the casserole to protect it from direct heat and to insure slow
cooking. Cook on top of the stove for fifteen minutes. Add
enough veal broth or white stock to half cover the pigeons and
set in the oven (350° F.) to cook until tender (2-2 1/2 hrs.)
When nearly done, vegetables may be added. At serving-time
thicken the liquor in the casserole by stirring into it flour mixed
smooth in a little water, allowing one tablespoon of flour for
each cup of liquid.
STEAK EN CASSEROLE
3 tablespoons butter or
Pepper
other fat
Turnip balls
3 tablespoons flour
Carrot balls
2 cups stock
Potato balls
Salt
Small onions
Parsley
2 pounds of 1 1/2-inch steak
Make a brown sauce of the fat, flour, stock and seasoning.
Add balls of turnip, carrot, potato and onions, which have
been previously cooked in a little brown stock until tender.
For each person, allow a half-dozen little balls of each of these
vegetables and two small onions. Keep this sauce hot while
you pan-broil the steak until about half done, then transfer
steak to heated casserole, pour vegetables and sauce over steak,
cover, and place in oven (350° F.) until steak is sufficiently
cooked. When ready to serve, sprinkle the steak with finely
chopped parsley.
704
CHOPPED BEEF EN CASSEROLE
2 pounds clod of beef
Boiled beets
2/3 cup tomato catchup
Salt
1/3 teaspoon tabasco sauce
Mix chopped beef with tomato catchup. Add tabasco sauce,
using more if desired. Season well with salt. Place in casserole
and bake (350° F.) slowly two to two and one-half hours,
basting frequently with water and tabasco or Worcestershire
sauce. A few strips of bacon across the top will add to the
richness, and improve the flavor. Garnish with quartered beets.
TAMALE PIE EN CASSEROLE
1 cup yellow corn-meal
2 cups chopped beef
6 cups boiling water
2 cups tomatoes
1 teaspoon salt
2 pimientos
1 medium-sized onion
Cayenne
2 tablespoons fat
Cook corn-meal, water, and salt, as for mush, for about
thirty minutes. Chop onion and fry in fat till brown. Add
meat and fry until red color disappears. Add tomatoes, pi-
mientos, and cayenne. Line oiled casserole with mush, put
meat mixture in center, cover with mush, and bake in a
moderate oven (350° F.; 2-2 1/2 hrs.).
TURBANS OF FISH EN CASSEROLE
Prepare slices of halibut or other fish about the size of one's
hand, with all bone and skin removed and sufficiently thin to
roll easily. Trim all to uniform size, dip each in melted butter
or other fat; squeeze over them lemon-juice and onion-juice,
and sprinkle with salt. Beginning at the widest end, roll the
slice of fish and secure with two toothpicks. Set the turban in
a greased and heated casserole and pour in a little stock made
by simmering the bones and trimmings of the fish in a little
water, together with a few slices each of carrot and onion.
Cook in a moderate oven (350° F.) basting occasionally.
When done, drain off the liquid and thicken it with flour mixed
with cold water. Return to the casserole, and reheat.
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
705
HUNGARIAN GOULASH EN CASSEROLE
4 onions
12 small onions
2 pounds veal
1 cup carrot slices
Bacon fat
1 cup turnip slices
1 1/2 pints brown stock
Salt
Pepper
Paprika
1 pint potato balls
Slice the onion and cut the raw veal in cubes. Cook together
in a little bacon fat, until brown. Transfer to casserole, pour
over it the brown stock and season with pepper and paprika.
Place in moderate oven (350° F.). Add more fat to that in
the frying-pan and brown in this the potato balls, small onions,
and slices of carrot and turnip. Add the vegetables and salt to
the casserole when the meat is partly cooked. Finish the cook-
ing, adding more stock if necessary. This dish should cook two
hours. If the broth is too thin when ready to serve, thicken
slightly with browned flour rubbed smooth in water.
LAMB EN CASSEROLE
6 slices of lamb
1 pint vegetable balls
2 tablespoons melted butter or
12 small onions
other fat
Seasoning
2 cups brown stock
Cut thick slices from a leg of lamb and sear, browning both
sides. Brush with melted fat and place in casserole with one-
half to one cup of brown stock. Cook over heat or in a mod-
erate oven (350° F.) until tender, then add potato balls, carrot
balls and onions, which have been previously cooked. Add more
brown stock, salt, pepper and paprika.
PORK CHOPS EN CASSEROLE
6 pork chops
1/2 cup brown sugar
6 sweet potatoes
1 to 2 cups milk
Salt and pepper
Place a layer of sweet potatoes, sliced crosswise, in a greased
casserole, dust with salt, pepper, and a little brown sugar; con-
tinue the layers until the casserole is about two-thirds full.
Heat the milk and pour it over the potatoes; it should just cover
them. Place the pork chops on top of the potatoes, cover and
706
bake (at 350° F.) for an hour, then remove the cover and
season with salt and pepper. Leave the cover off and cook until
the chops are tender and nicely browned on top.
Four tart apples, pared, cored and cut in eighths, used in
place of the sweet potatoes, make an excellent casserole dish
with pork chops.
CALF'S LIVER EN CASSEROLE
1 pound calf's liver
3 cups potato balls
6 slices bacon
1 pint brown stock
1 cup button mushrooms
Wash the calf's liver thoroughly and wipe dry. Fry some
bacon in a pan, remove, place the liver in the bacon fat, and sear
each side thoroughly. Transfer to a casserole, add slices of
bacon, brown stock, and sautéd mushroons. Cook for one hour
and a half in the oven (350° F.) adding more stock if necessary.
Just before serving add potato balls which have been fried in
deep fat (395° F.) and drained.
CASSEROLE OF RICE AND LIVER
1 cup rice
1 teaspoon caramel
1 quart water
2 tablespoons browned flour
2 tablespoons butter or other
2 tablespoons fat
fat
Crumbs
1 pound lamb's or calf's liver
Salt and pepper
2 cups stock
Boil the rice in the water and mash smooth with the fat.
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Line a well-greased
casserole with the mixture, pressing the paste firmly against
bottom and sides, and leaving a large hollow in the center. Set
in a cold place until firm. Meanwhile boil the liver, drain,
chop fine and season with salt. Heat the soup stock, seasoned
with caramel (See Index). Make a brown sauce with the fat,
browned flour and soup stock, and add the minced liver. Fill
the hollow in the center of the rice with the liver mixture,
sprinkle with crumbs and brown in the oven.
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
707
RICE EN CASSEROLE
2 cups chopped cold meat
2 tablespoons butter or other
3 eggs
fat
1/3 cup milk
2 tablespoons tomato catchup
2 cups boiled rice
Salt
Celery-salt
Season the meat and pile it in the center of an oiled casserole.
Mix the eggs, milk, rice, fat and seasonings. Pour over the
meat, cover, and bake (350° F.) for twenty minutes.
SPANISH RICE
3/4 cup rice
1/2 cup chopped green pepper
2 tablespoons fat
or pimientos
5 cups water
Salt
2 onions
Pepper
2 cups tomatoes
Paprika
Fry the rice in the fat until brown, then add water and boil
until soft. Drain. Sauté the onions in a little fat; mix with
tomatoes and chopped peppers or pimientos, and add to the
rice. Add seasoning, and place in a greased casserole. Bake
(350° F.) for thirty minutes.
RICE A LA CREOLE
1 cup chopped boiled ham
2 cups fine soft crumbs
1 onion
2 tablespoons butter or other
1 cup boiled rice
fat
1 can tomatoes
Celery-salt
Pepper and salt
Mix ingredients in the order given. Bake in a greased
casserole for one-half hour (350° F.). This dish makes a good
one-dish meal.
SPAGHETTI, SPANISH MICHEL
2 cups spaghetti
1 onion
1 quart tomatoes, fresh or
1 green pepper
canned
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup boiled ham
1/2 teaspoon salt
Break the spaghetti into inch pieces. Cook in one quart
boiling water until tender, add the tomatoes, and cook fifteen
708
minutes longer. Remove the fat from the ham and try it out.
Dice onion and green pepper, and fry slowly in this fat until
tender. Chop the ham and add it with the onion, green pepper
and seasoning to the spaghetti and tomatoes. Put in casserole
and bake fifteen minutes in a moderate oven (350°-400° F.).
SCALLOPED HAM AND POTATOES
6 potatoes
1 green pepper (may be
1 pound raw smoked ham
omitted)
3 cups milk (or more)
Flour
Cover the bottom of an oiled baking-dish with sliced, raw
potatoes. Sprinkle with flour add inch-square pieces of ham.
Repeat until the dish is full. Pour in as much milk as the dish
will hold. Bake (350°-400° F.) until the potatoes are tender
(1-1 1/2 hrs.). Chopped green pepper adds to the flavor.
SUMMER CASSEROLE
6 hard-cooked eggs
2 teaspoons salt
3 ripe tomatoes
1 1/2 cups milk
3 tablespoons butter or other
1/2 cup grated cheese
fat
Buttered crumbs
3 tablespoons flour
Cut hard-cooked eggs in half and arrange around the edge
of a greased casserole or baking-dish. Slice peeled ripe tomatoes
in the center of the dish. Make a white sauce of the milk, fat
and flour. Add cheese, and stir over a very low fire until the
cheese is well mixed and smooth. Pour over tomatoes and eggs.
Cover with crumbs and bake twenty minutes in a moderate
oven (350°-400° F.).
The centers of the tomatoes may be scooped out, and a whole
egg placed in each, if desired.
BANANAS EN CASSEROLE
6 small bananas
1 cup boiling water
1 glass currant or grape jelly
1 lemon
Peel the bananas. Remove the coarse threads and divide in
quarters, cutting first crosswise and then lengthwise. Place in
a greased casserole and pour over them a sauce made by melting
the currant or grape jelly in the boiling water, and mixing with
CASSEROLE AND OVEN COOKERY
709
it the juice of a lemon. Cover the casserole and bake in a hot
oven (400°-450° F.) until the bananas are tender. The cover
may be removed at the last moment and the bananas sprinkled
with granulated sugar and allowed to brown slightly. Serve
as an entrée with game, mutton, or beef.
AU GRATIN DISHES EN CASSEROLE
Au gratin dishes, many of which are given in this book, are
particularly adapted to the casserole. The mixtures of chicken,
sweetbreads, fish, macaroni and vegetables may be entirely pre-
pared, then placed in the casserole, topped with buttered
crumbs and cheese and placed in a hot oven (400°-450° F.)
to brown.
EGGS YORKSHIRE-
1/2 cup fat
1 cup pastry flour
2 eggs, beaten
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 hard or soft cooked eggs
Place casserole with fat in oven to melt. Remove fat to use
in batter, leaving enough to grease casserole thoroughly. Re-
turn casserole to oven to heat. Beat eggs and milk thoroughly;
add baking powder, flour, salt and fat and beat mixture until
smooth. Cover bottom of casserole with layer of eggs (whole,
halved, quartered or sliced). Pour in batter until casserole is
about 2/3 full and place in hot oven (450° F.) for 15 minutes
until mixture begins to expand and brown slightly, then reduce
to 350° F. for 25 minutes. The batter should puff nicely during
baking, making an attractive uneven broken surface. Serve at
once from baking dish.
SALMON CASSEROLE-
1 1-pound can salmon
2 cups prepared biscuit
1/3 cup milk
flour
1/2 pound American cheese
3/4 cup milk
Flake salmon in casserole. Melt cheese in top of a double
boiler; add 1/3 cup milk while stirring. Pour over salmon. Mix
biscuit flour and 3/4 cup milk and make biscuits. Cut each in
half and place around edge of casserole. Bake in hot oven
(425° F.) until lightly browned.
COOKING AT THE TABLE
719
4. IF YOUR COOKERS ARE ELECTRIC, be sure that your wires
are heavy enough to bear the load without blowing out a fuse.
Unless you have special wiring and sturdy convenience out-
lets, it is safer not to attempt to use a grill or waffle iron plus
a percolator on the same circuit. Plan to use first one and then
the other, or you may melt a fuse when the meal is but half
ready, leaving your guests hungry for that always indefinite
period until it may be replaced.
Dishes That Are Especially Good for Table Cookery
BANANA SAUTÉ
1 tablespoon butter
Flour
Sugar
3 bananas
3 to 6 slices sponge cake
Melt the butter in the blazer. Peel the bananas, cut in half
lengthwise, roll lightly in flour and brown on both sides in the
hot fat. Sprinkle with sugar and serve on oblongs of sponge
cake.
CHICKEN HASH
1 1/2 cups chopped chicken
1 tablespoon parsley
1 cup diced boiled potatoes
Salt
Pepper
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 cup stock or water
Mix the chicken and the potatoes lightly together. Melt the
fat in the blazer, add the potato and meat, parsley, seasoning and
stock, and cook directly over the flame.
If desired, one-fourth cup of chopped green peppers may be
added.
CRAB RAREBIT
1 tablespoon fat
Pepper
Parsley
2 tablespoons flour
1 to 2 cups crab meat, fresh
2 cups cream
or canned
1/8 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese
1/2 teaspoon salt
Toast
Make a white sauce of the fat, flour, cream, soda and season-
ings. Add chopped cooked crab meat (see page 221). Arrange
squares of buttered toast on a hot platter. Pour the crab mix-
ture over them, sprinkle with grated cheese and serve piping hot.
720
ENGLISH MONKEY
1 cup bread-crumbs
1 egg
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fat
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup mild American cheese
Toast
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk until they are soft. Melt
the fat in the blazer. Add the cheese cut in dice. When the
cheese has melted, add the softened crumbs, the egg beaten,
and salt and pepper. Cook three minutes longer and pour over
squares of toast.
GRILLED SARDINES
12 large sardines
1 tablespoon lemon-juice
6 pieces toast
Drain sardines and heat thoroughly in chafing-dish. Turn
frequently; add lemon-juice and serve on finger-length pieces
of toast.
OYSTERS A L'INDIENNE
1 pint oysters
2 tablespoons Worcestershire
Bacon
sauce
Cloves
1 tablespoon minced parsley
2 tablespoons chutney
6 olives
sauce
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Drain large oysters, wipe them dry, wrap each in a slice of
bacon, fasten with a toothpick, and stick two cloves in each
oyster. Put the oysters in the blazer and cook until the bacon
is crisp and the oysters plump. Mix the chutney sauce, Wor-
cestershire sauce, minced parsley, olives cut fine, and paprika.
Pour over the oysters, stirring it thoroughly into the gravy.
This recipe will serve three or four.
LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG
2 tablespoons butter
1 pint milk
1 teaspoon flour
3 egg-yolks
1 boiled lobster or 1 can
Salt
of lobster
Cayenne
Place the butter in the blazer and stir it as it foams. Rub
the flour into the butter, add the salt and pepper, then one-
746
cook a very short time. Lift out, chill and serve with tartar
sauce. It may be covered with an aspic gelatin and garnished
with shrimps and bits of truffle.
JELLIED CONSOMME WITH SHERRY
3 cups seasoned consommé
4 tablespoons sherry wine
2 tablespoons gelatin
1/2 cup cold water
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
Minced parsley
Soften the gelatin in the cold water. Dissolve in the hot con-
sommé. Add the lemon juice and wine, and salt if required.
Chill in the refrigerator. Chop lightly before putting in service
cups. Top with minced parsley, a lemon crescent or a bit of
tomato fringed with minced green pepper.
HALIBUT À LA NEWBURG
1 lb. halibut
1 cup evaporated milk (un-
1 tablespoon brandy
diluted-)
1/4 cup sherry wine
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 tablespoons butter
3 egg yolks
Dash cayenne-salt to taste
Cut the halibut in small cubes. Steam over hot water or poach
in court bouillon for five minutes. Beware of long or swift cook-
ing as the halibut easily loses its shape. When poached, put the
fish, butter, wine, brandy, salt and cayenne in a double boiler
and heat smoking hot. Beat the yolks and combine with the
evaporated milk (sour cream may be substituted for the milk
and lemon juice) and cook with the hot fish for one minute.
Remove from the fire and add the lemon juice. Serve on very
hot plates. An excellent chafing dish innovation.
LOBSTER CURRY APPETIZER
1/2 cup fresh or canned lob-
1/4 teaspoon curry powder
ster meat
1 teaspoon sherry wine
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon dry mustard
Sauté the lobster in the melted fat. Add the seasonings and
the wine. When very hot serve on small bread croustades or
packaged appetizer shells.
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
747
LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG
1/2 lb. butter
3 cups lobster meat (3 1/2 lb.
1 cup Madeira wine
live lobster)
2 cups whipping cream
Salt and cayenne to taste
1 small can truffles
Cut the lobster in small pieces. Chop the truffles fine. Heat
both the above in melted butter till very hot. Add the wine.
When hot add the cream and seasoning and let them blend for
several minutes. Cook over hot water, as a high temperature
will curdle the cream-wine mixture.
SOLE THERMIDOR
1 lb. sole or filet of flounder
1/4 cup brandy
1 tablespoon flour
3 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup sour cream
2 cups court bouillon
1 teaspoon dry mustard
4 tablespoons grated Swiss
Salt and cayenne to taste
or Parmesan cheese
Neatly trim the fish fillets and poach in court bouillon.
(See page 745.) Lift onto a hot baking platter. Combine the
flour and melted butter and add the court bouillon in which the
fish was poached. Add the seasonings, the cream, the brandy
and 2 tablespoons of the cheese. Do not cook. Pour over the
fish, sprinkle with the remaining cheese and put close under the
flame to brown instantly. Serve as an entrée.
HAM PORTE MAILLOT
1/4 cup cooking fat
1/2 clove garlic
1/2 cup dried Lima beans
1/2 cup cauliflower
(cooked)
1/4 cup celery
1/2 cup carrots
2 leaves lettuce
1/4 cup onion
1/2 to 3/4 cup dry white wine
Originated by a restaurant just outside the Porte Maillot, one
of the gates of Paris, this dish brings a new flavor to a baked
ham. We have substituted dried Lima beans for the French
white bean that is infrequently used in America. Cut the car-
rots, onion, garlic, celery, cauliflower and lettuce in long nar-
row shreds. Simmer them in the cooking fat but do not brown.
748
When cooked add the previously cooked Lima beans and the
white wine. Cook together one minute and serve around a hot
baked ham or as a sauce for left-over ham that has been re-
heated over steam.
VEAL WITH OLIVES
1 1/2 lbs. veal cutlets
1/4 cup butter or cooking fat
1/3 cup Marsala wine
10 green olives
Salt and pepper to taste
The secret of the success of this delicious Italian meat is to
have the veal pounded paper thin. Ask for veal scaloppini at
markets in the East. Otherwise ask for veal cutlets and ask
the butcher to pound the meat paper thin after cutting it
1/4 inch thick. Wipe the veal, sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Simmer very quickly in the melted butter, browning lightly on
both sides, add the wine and the olives cut in narrow strips.
Heat one minute and serve. The veal should cook in five
minutes.
BURGUNDIAN BEEF
3 lbs. beef, rump or round
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 lb. salt pork
3 tablespoons flour
3 cups minced onion
1/2 carrot, in circles
2 small shallots, minced
1 clove garlic
6 peppercorns
2 tablespoons minced parsley
2 bay leaves
2 tablespoons minced chervil
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
1 1/2 to 2 cups red wine
or fresh minced tarragon
Salt to taste
1/8 teaspoon thyme
Dice the salt pork. and sauté in the butter. Cut the beef in
two-inch cubes or leave in one piece as preferred. Sear thor-
oughly in the hot fat. Lift out. Add the onion, garlic, shallots
and carrot. Simmer them in the fat till light yellow. Add all
the other ingredients and the beef. Cook on a very slow fire
three hours. Remove excess fat and serve. It may be re-heated
with advantage.
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
749
LAMB CHOPS WITH MADEIRA
6 lamb chops
2 carrots
3 onions
4 mushrooms
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons Madeira
1 teaspoon tomato paste
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1/2 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cut the vegetables in fine inch-length strips. Simmer them
in the butter till tender. Cover during this cooking so that the
zest will be preserved. Season. Add the tomato paste and
Madeira. Serve on top of broiled lamb chops. Thick lamb
chops boned and circled with bacon add elegance to this
Madeira flavored dish.
CHICKEN BRAISED WITH WINE
(Coq au Vin)
1 frying chicken
3 tablespoons butter
8 small white onions
1/4 lb. salt pork diced
4 small shallots
1/4 lb. mushrooms
1 tablespoon minced parsley
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon minced chervil
1 carrot
2 tablespoons flour
Pinch thyme
1 tablespoon brandy
1 cup red or white wine
Salt and pepper to taste
1 clove garlic
Lightly brown the salt pork in the melted butter, add the
shallot, onions, garlic and the carrot cut in circles. Simmer till
golden, but not browned. Lift out and brown the chicken.
Sprinkle with the flour, seasoning and herbs. Return the
sautéed vegetables and add the wine. Cook fifteen to twenty
minutes on a rather hot fire. During the last five minutes add
the mushrooms. Skim off excess fat and serve.
Red wine is usual in making this dish, but the white one
gives a more delicate flavor.
Make your dinner perfect by serving with this chicken
a
salad of mixed greens with a simple French dressing made with
lemon juice. The acid of vinegar devitalizes the subtle details
in flavor of the wine-cooked chicken.
750
EGGS WITH SHERRY AND ORANGE
(Oeufs au Xérès et à l'Orange)
6 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sherry
Cayenne
3 tablespoons tomato sauce
Butter
Grated orange rind
Beat eggs until no longer stringy. Blend in sherry and tomato
sauce. Add seasonings. Melt butter in a frying pan and pour
in the mixture. Cook slowly, stirring until it begins to set. Then
sprinkle with the grated orange rind and serve immediately.
PLANTATION SWEET POTATOES
6 sweet potatoes
6 tablespoons sherry wine
3/4 cup butter or other fat
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
Paprika
1/4 teaspoon pepper
Bake washed sweet potatoes at 450° F. for 40 minutes. Cut
off a slice from the top of each and hollow out. Mash the
potato. Whip with the melted butter or other fat, the season-
ing and the sherry. Re-stuff in the potato shells and sprinkle
with paprika. Brown in the oven.
MUSHROOMS WITH MADEIRA
1/2 lb. mushrooms
8 small white onions
3 tablespoons bouillon
3 teaspoons flour
1/4 cup butter
1 tablespoon minced parsley
2 tablespoons Madeira
1 tablespoon minced chervil
Salt, cayenne
1/2 bay leaf
Melt the butter and cook onions in it for five minutes. Do
not brown. Add the mushrooms that have been washed but not
peeled. Whole mushrooms make the most attractive service, so
slice only the stems. When well coated with butter, add the
minced herbs, the flour, the bouillon and the seasoning. Cook
until the onions are tender-slowly of course. Add the Madeira
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
75I
and cook one minute. Serve garnished with croutons and minced
herbs.
A delicious entrée or specialty for chafing dish parties.
WELSH RAREBIT
1 lb. grated American cheese
1 teaspoon butter
1 teaspoon paprika
1/2 pint ale or beer
Salt and prepared mustard to
taste
Melt the butter and stir so that it oils the bottom of your
pan. (A chafing dish over hot water is ideal.) Add the cheese
and gently stir into it one tablespoon of beer or ale. The cheese
will at once thicken and another tablespoon of beer or ale should
be added. Stir continuously. Add more liquid until the mix-
ture is smooth and velvety. The exact amount of ale varies
with different cheeses. Season to taste and serve on toast. Hot
plates are essential. This will serve six single portions.
HOT WINE SAUCE FOR VENISON, GAME
OR TONGUE
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 cup water
1/2 glass currant jelly
1/2 cup port wine
Juice of 1/2 lemon
3 cloves
Pinch cayenne
1 teaspoon salt
Simmer together for five minutes all ingredients except the
wine. Strain and add the port wine. Add also a little of the
meat gravy. Serve hot.
BRANDIED APPLE FRITTERS
4 medium apples
4 tablespoons brandy
1 egg
1/2 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
Pare the apples, core and slice in circles or cut in segments.
Pour over them the brandy, cover tightly with cooking parch-
ment. Combine the well beaten egg yolk with the sugar and
milk. Add the flour that has been sifted with the salt and bak-
SAUCE SUPERB
2 eggs
1 cup powdered sugar
1 cup whipping cream
4 teaspoons rum
Beat the eggs till thick and lemon colored. Add the sugar
gradually and continue beating. Whip the cream very stiff, add
the rum and combine the two mixtures. The secret of success
in making this sauce is to beat it thoroughly. It will keep for
hours in the refrigerator.
APRICOT RUM WHIP
1 #2 1/2 can apricots
1 tablespoon rum
3/4 cup whipping cream
3 egg whites
Drain the apricots and reserve the juice for beverages. Mash
the fruit through a sieve and combine with the whipped egg
whites and the whipped cream. Fold in the rum and serve cold.
BRANDIED CARAMEL BANANAS
6 bananas
3 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon brandy
3 tablespoons brown sugar
Peel the bananas, divide in halves lengthwise. Melt the butter
and sauté the bananas. Turn when brown on one side. Add the
sugar and, when browned on the other side, add the brandy.
Serve on very hot plates with the brandied sugar atop the
bananas.
CREPES SUZETTE
3/4 cup flour
6 lumps loaf sugar
2 teaspoons sugar
1 orange
1 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons brandy
3/4 cup milk
1/4 cup Grand Marnier Liqueur
3 eggs
1/8 lb. sweet butter
This very famous but really very simple dessert is not dif-
ficult. A more awe-inspiring recipe for the crêpes is common at
754
FROZEN PUDDING WITH RUM
2 eggs
1 cup assorted candied fruit
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 cups milk
1/2 to 3/4 cup rum
1 cup whipping cream
Pinch salt
Cover the chopped candied fruits with rum and cover tightly.
Stand two or three hours. Make a custard of the eggs, sugar,
salt and hot milk. Cool. Fold in the whipping cream, beaten
stiff, and the candied fruits. Pour into a tray of the mechanical
refrigerator and freeze. Beat at the end of an hour and once
or twice afterward to assure even textured cream. At the last
beating, the cream may be placed in small molds or in little in-
dividual paper containers.
PINEAPPLE WITH KIRSCH
Cut a ripe pineapple in slices. Remove the rind and the eyes.
Restack the slices in their original shape. Pass with the pine-
apple a bowl of powdered sugar and a bottle of kirsch.
Canned pineapple is also excellent with kirsch but, when
using it, you gain in flavor by pouring the kirsch over the fruit
and chilling in the refrigerator for an hour or more. Be sure to
cover closely so that all the zest will be part of the fruit. Allow
one tablespoon of kirsch to two slices of canned pineapple.
Many other fruits are delicious accompanied by this mild
liqueur, strawberries, for example.
SYLLABUB
2 cups whipping cream
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon rum
A famous English recipe. Whip the cream stiff, fold in the
sugar and rum. Ripen in the refrigerator for half an hour,
covered, of course. Serve in sherbet glasses.
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
755
STRAWBERRIES CHANTILLY
Wash, stem and cut in half 1 quart ripe strawberries. Cover
with powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons rum. Chill 30 minutes.
Whisk two egg whites stiff, beat in gradually 4 tablespoons
powdered sugar. Fold in the chilled berries. Serve in sherbet
glasses and top with sweetened whipped cream.
TIPSY PUDDING
One of the choice recipes of our Grandmother's era. It ap-
peared in the place of honor on New Year's Day. The secret for
a successful outcome is to use a very stale, very porous cake.
A broken, not cut, sunshine cake at least four days old, should
be soaked in sherry. Allow about one cup sherry to a quarter of
a good sized cake. An hour later cover the cake with a soft
custard flavored with rum. Serve very cold.
OLD FASHIONED WINE JELLY
2 tablespoons granulated
1/2 cup cold water
gelatin
1 cup boiling water
1 cup sherry or Madeira wine
Grated rind 1 orange
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup lemon juice
2/3 cup orange juice
Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft. Dissolve in the
boiling water, add the sugar and other ingredients. Pour into
molds that have been rinsed in cold water. Serve with whipped
cream.
BRANDIED PEACHES
4 lbs. fruit
4 lbs. sugar
1 pint best white brandy
1 egg white
Cloves
3 1/2 cups water
Pare the peaches with a silver knife. Insert 2 cloves in each
whole peach. Make a syrup of the sugar and water. Add the
egg white beaten to a froth. Skim. Put in fruit, one layer at
a time, and boil five minutes or until it may be pierced with a
straw. Remove the fruit to a platter to partially cool. Then
756
pack in glass jars. Return any excess juice to the syrup and boil
about ten minutes more, or till well thickened. Remove from
the fire, add the brandy and pour over the fruit. Seal at once.
White cling stone peaches are particularly good. Six pounds of
fruit will yield about seven pint jars. Improves with age.
HASTY WINE GELATIN
2 packages lemon-flavored
1/2 cup Madeira wine or
gelatin
1/4 cup sherry wine
3 1/2 cups hot water
Dissolve the gelatin in the hot water. When perfectly clear
add the wine. Pour in molds that have been rinsed in cold
water. Serve with whipped cream. Garnish with grated orange
peel on top the whipped cream. Orange flavored gelatin com-
bines well with Madeira.
CLARET LEMONADE
12 cubes ice
Sugar syrup to taste
1 bottle claret
Orange slices
Juice 3 lemons
Half fill a glass pitcher with ice cubes or cracked ice. Add the
lemon juice and a few slices of orange. Fill the pitcher nearly
full with claret and add sugar syrup to taste. Stand twenty to
thirty minutes to blend and ripen.
MULLED CLARET
1 qt. hot claret
1/2 cup sugar
1 piece stick cinnamon
8 cloves
Juice 1 lemon
1/2 lemon sliced
Heat the claret and add the other ingredients. Stir till dis-
solved and serve hot. Doughnuts were served with it in the
nineties.
TUTTI FRUTTI
Into a stone jar put one cup of brandy, the best you own, one
cup sugar and one cup ripe strawberries. Stir thoroughly. As
each fruit comes to the height of its perfection, add it, with a
WINE SEASONS FINE FOOD
757
cup of sugar for each cup of fruit. No more brandy is indicated.
Be sure to stir at each addition. Large fruits like peaches should
be cut in small pieces. Cherries and plums should be stoned.
Atop vanilla ice cream this is an epicurean delight. Perhaps you
will make enough to use it for preserves.
CHAMPAGNE CUP
1/2 cup Maraschino
2 qts. Champagne
1/2 cup Vermuth
Cucumber rind
1/2 cup Santa Cruz rum
Juice 4 oranges
Sugar to taste
Juice 3 lemons
Sweeten the fruit juices slightly. Combine all the ingredients.
Let stand ten minutes after mixing with a large piece of ice in
a
punch bowl. It's well to use as large a piece of ice as possible,
for it melts more slowly and adds less water to the punch.
EGGNOG, SOUTHERN
4 eggs
4 tablespoons brandy or
1/2 cup whipping cream
whisky
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
Beat the yolks till thick and lemon colored. Slowly beat in the
brandy and sugar. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and the
whipped cream. This must be eaten with a spoon. Excellent.
EGGNOG-OTHER TYPE
4 eggs
4 tablespoons brandy or
4 tablespoons powdered
rum
sugar
3 cups milk
Grating of nutmeg
Beat the egg white to a dry froth. Beat into the egg white the
sugar and then the yolks of the eggs combined with the brandy.
Add the milk and a slight grating of nutmeg. Serve at once.
Famous at New Year's and Christmas.
ZABAGLIONE-
4 egg yolks
Cinnamon
3 tablespoons honey
2 tablespoons Marsala wine
Beat egg yolks with honey until thick and lemon colored in
the top of a double boiler. Add wine gradually. While it heats
continue to use rotary beater. Serve as drink or dessert sauce
with dash of cinnamon.
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
5
Drop and Bag Work.
1
CUP CAKES, PLAIN.
2 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
1 1b. lard.
1 qt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
1 oz. ammonia.
Flavor with mace.
2
N. V. LUNCH CUP CAKES.
3 lbs. sugar.
24 eggs.
21 lbs. butter.
1 1/2 pint milk.
4 lbs. flour
1 oz. soda.
Vanilla icing.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Flavor with vanilla extract.
3
DROP CAKES.
2 1/2 lbs. sugar.
12 eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
4 1/ lbs. flour.
1 OZ. ammonia.
1/2 oz. soda.
Flavor with lemon.
Don't grease your pans.
6
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
4
CURRANT DROPS
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pint milk.
1 1b. lard and butter. 15 eggs.
42 lbs. flour
1 oz. soda.
1 1b. currants
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Flavor with almond extract.
5
CREAM PUFFS.
1 qt. water
1 1b. lard.
1 1b. flour.
20 eggs.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
Let boil on a quick fire; stir in your flour
till the mixture comes off the kettle; work in
2 or 3 eggs at a time; fill with whipped
cream, made of 1 qt. cream, 6 oz. powdered
sugar. Flavor with vanilla.
6
ECL AIRES, CHOC, & VAN.
1 pt. milk
10 OZ. flour.
1/2 pt. oil.
10 eggs.
1/8 oz. amonia.
Mix the same as No. 5, fill with 1/2 qt.
milk, 6 eggs, 3 oz. corn starch, offet 1b. sugar.
Flavor with vanilla,
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
7
7
ROUGH & READY.
3 1b. sugar.
1 qt. milk.
1b. butter.
1 oz. soda.
6 1b. flour.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
12 eggs.
Flavor with vanilla.
Drop in granulated sugar, then put them
on pans, mark with stick (in shape of knife)
three strips one way and three the other.
Don't grease your pans.
8
DROPS.
2 1b. sugar.
1 oz. soda.
3 1b. flour.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
1 2/2 pt. eggs.
1/2 pt. water.
Ice them and dip in cocoanut.
Vanilla
flavor. Grease your pans and dust them.
9
SPONGE DROPS.
2 lbs. sugar half A and half powder.
3 1/ lbs. flour.
1 qt. milk.
10 eggs.
1 oz. soda.
1 OZ. ammonia.
Flavor with lemon.
Ice them, white and chocolate.
8
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
10
SPICE DROPS, PLAIN.
12 oz. powder sugar. 5 lbs. flour.
6 OZ. lard.
1 qt. molasses.
2 OZ. soda.
1 qt. water.
Putin 5eggs last. Flavor with spices.
Don't grease your pans.
11
MOLASSES CUP CAKES.
4 oz. powder sugar.
2 lbs. flour.
6 oz. lard.
1 pt. molasses.
state oz. soda.
1 pt. water.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
2 eggs last.
Put a few currants on top.
12
SPONGE CUP CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
10 eggs.
4 3 1b. flour.
10 yolks.
1 6 OZ. bak'g powder Water icing.
Sprinkle chopped almonds on top.
13
ROSE JUMBLES, (small round tube.)
11 1b. pow'd sugar.
6 eggs.
1 1b. butter
1 flour.
Flavor white rose.
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
9
14
CORN CUP CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
5 eggs.
1/4 1b. butter.
1 qt. milk.
1b. corn meal.
1 cent soda.
1/2 1b. wheat flour.
2 cent cream of tartar.
15
WHEAT MUFFINS.
1/2 1b. sugar.
6 eggs.
1/2 1b. butter.
2 oz. baking powder.
3 lbs. wheat flour.
11 qt. milk.
16
CORN MUFFINS.
2 lbs. corn meal.
4 eggs.
1/2 1b. winter wheat. 1/2 1b. sugar.
qt. milk.
1/2 1b. butter.
3 oz. baking powder.
17
SPICE CUPS.
1 2/2 lbs. flour.
1 pt. molasses.
2/2 1b. cake crumbs.
1 pt. water.
6 oz. sugar.
2 eggs.
4 oz. lard.
Ice with chocolate.
1 oz. soda.
Flavor of spices.
TO
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
18
GEORGIA CUPS.
Lay out your cups with pie crust; fill &
full with the following :
lbs. cake crumbs. 3 eggs.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 pt. water.
1/4 1b. lard.
1/2 pt. molasses.
1/2
1b. currants.
1/2 OZ. ammonia.
1/2 1b. seedless raisins.
Hole in the center; after baking fill with
jelly.
19
LADVFYNGEERS.
10 eggs.
2 yolks.
1 1b. powd. sugar. (hot oven)
1 1b. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
You can also make jelly drops round, jelly
between; lima bean shape; ice with chocolate
and white.
20
CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE DROPS.
6 oz. powd. sugar.
6 yolks.
9 OZ. flour.
9 whites of eggs.
Beat to a froth stir in yolks, then add the
flour and sugar together; dip in chocolate,
(2 drops chocolate between.)
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
II
21
JUMBLES, (star tube.)
3 1b. sugar pow'd.
15 eggs.
3 1b. butter.
A little nutmeg.
42 1b. flour.
Grease your pans light.
22
COCOANUT JUMBLES. (Plain round tube.)
2 1b. pow'd sugar.
15 eggs.
1 1b. butter,
1 qt. milk.
42 1b. flour
1 oz. soda.
1/4 1b. cocoanut.
2 OZ. bream of tartar.
23
CUP CAKES.
3 lbs. powder sugar. 2 lbs. butter.
4* lbs. flour.
Rub sugar, flour and butter in the same
manner as for pie crust; then put in 1 oz.
soda, 2 oz. cream of tartar, a little cinnamon,
1 qt. eggs, 1 qt. milk.
Mix this in nicely, beat up milk and eggs
as for eggwash, add it and work it as little
as possible, just enough to mix it; it will
turn out as level smooth top cup cake as you
wish for icing; use chocolate icing.
I2
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
24
CHOCOLAE JUMBLES, (small ronnd tube)
1: 1b. powd sugar.
10 eggs.
1 1b. butter.
1 oz. chocolate spices.
1/2 1b. flour.
(Small round tube.)
25
MACE JUMBLES.
4 1b. sugar.
8 eggs.
2 1b. butter.
1 qt. milk.
7 1/2 1b. flour.
1 oz. ammonia.
Flavor with mace.
off OZ. soda.
Use the jumble machine also for next.
26
SPICE JUMBLES.
2 qt. molasses
1/2 pint oil.
7 3 qt. water.
4 oz. soda.
5 eggs. 2 1b. crumbs.
6 1b. flour.
Flavor with spices.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
13
Cut Cakes or Cookies.
27
ROCK CAKES.
8 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. eggs.
5 lbs. butter.
12 qt. milk.
18 lbs. flour.
4 oz. amonia.
3 lbs. currants.
Flavor with lemon.
28
ROUGH AND READY.
2 1b. sugar.
8 eggs.
1 1b. lard.
1 pt. of milk.
4 1b. flour.
1 oz. soda.
Flavor with vanilla. 2 oz. cream of tartar.
29
SUGAR CAKES.
12 lbs. sugar.
1/2 qt. eggs.
6 lbs. lard.
3 qt. milk.
27 lbs. flour.
6 oz. ammonia
Flavor with mace.
30
TEA CAKES.
6 lbs. sugar.
2 qt. water.
2 lbs. lard.
3 oz. ammonia.
12 lbs. flour.
(hot oven.)
Flavor with lemon.
14
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
31
LEMON CAKES, (poor.)
10 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. eggs.
5 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
18 lbs. flour.
5 OZ. ammonia.
Flavor with lemon; wash with egg wash;
if you wish to make them run more, add
more powdered sugar. (Hot oven.)
32
LEMON CAKES, (rich.)
3 lbs. granul. sugar. 10 eggs.
1 lbs. butter.
1/2 pt. milk.
41 lbs. flour.
3/2 oz. ammonia.
Wash with egg wash, also.
33
JELLY TARTS.
1 1b. sugar.
6 eggs.
1/4 pt. milk.
11 lbs. butter.
2 lbs. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
Cut round like cookies, use 1 pint whites,
lbs. sugar for marange rings on top of
your cookies; dot in the middle, sift over
with sugar, let them get a hard crust in a
cool oven put some jelly in a bag and fill
the empty ring with it.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
15
34
COCOANUT JUMBLES.
12 lbs. sugar.
2 pt. eggs.
6 lbs. butter.
3 pt. milk.
18 lbs. flour.
6 oz. baking powder.
1/2
1b. cocoanut.
Wash and throw in cocoanut.
35
ICING STICKS.
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
1 1b. lard.
1 pt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
1/2 oz. amonia.
Flavor with vanilla; ice with white of egg
icing; let them dry before baking.
36
MACAROON TARTS.
Cut out as cookies, put them on pans
(same mixture as in 33) put on ring of
macaroon mixture (look up No. 61) before
baking; when done put some water icing
inside the ring and a small dot chocolate
icing in the middle.
16
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
37
GINGER CAKES.
3 lbs. sugrar.
4 qt. molasses.
2 lbs. lard.
2 qt. water.
18 lbs. flour.
1 pt. eggs.
Ginger.
8 OZ. soda.
Wash with water.
38
CRIMEL CAKES.
10 lbs. crumbs.
3 qt. water.
5 lbs. sugar.
2 qt. molasses.
12 lbs. flour.
1 pt eggs.
5 OZ. amonia.
Flavor with spices.
Granulated sugar on top.
39
CRIMEL CAKES.
3 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
2 lbs. lard.
2 pt. molasses.
1 OZ. soda.
6 lbs. flour.
1/2 pt. water.
3 lbs. crumbs.
Flavor with spices.
Wash with egg wash.
40
BROWN MARCIPAN.
4 lbs. sugar.
2 gal. molasses.
4 lbs. lard.
1 gral. water.
1/2 lbs. soda.
Flour till stiff enough.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
17
41
LEB CAKES.
4 gal. molasses.
4 lbs. crumbs.
1 2/2 gal. water.
2 lbs. soda.
1/2 gral. oil.
Anis and spices.
Flour as stiff as sugar cake, cut out
square, bake and ice single.
42
LEB CAKES.
1/2 1b. lard.
2 qt. molasses.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 qt. water.
1/4 1b. soda.
8 lbs. flour.
Put them close together; ice with brush
white of egg icing.
43
HONEY LEB CAKES.
1/4 1b.almonds, chop'd. 1/4 1b. citron, fine.
1 4 1b. sugar.
1 pt. molasses.
1/4 1b. butter.
1 pt. honey.
42 lbs. flour.
1/2 pt. water.
2 oz. soda.
4 eggs.
Bake close together; cook sugar for icing;
the icing is made of 5 lbs. sugar; 1 qt. water;
36°
18
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
44
PEPPER NUTS.
1 1b. sugar.
1/2 pt. water.
1/4 1b. lard.
2 pt. molasses.
5 eggs.
2 OZ. soda.
5 1b. flour.
Flavor with spices and ginger.
When baked put them in a wooden
bowl, pour on some sugar and keep stirring
it slowly until dry, then put on more sugar
gradually; will get white when dry.
45
COMMON SUGAR CAKES.
4 lbs. sugar.
8 eggs.
2 lbs. lard.
1 qt. milk.
8 lbs. flour.
2 oz. ammonia.
46
FRENCH GINGERSNAPS.
2 lbs. sugar, (brown) 1 qt. water.
4 lbs. crumbs.
1 oz. ammonia.
1/2 lbs. flour.
11 lbs. lard.
Flavor with spices.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
19
47
CONN. GINGER COOKIES.
2 pt. molasses.
1 1b. lard.
1 pt. water.
3/2 1b. sugar.
2 oz. soda.
4 lbs. flour.
Roll in round pieces, put them in pans
and flatten them a little.
48
GINGER SNAPS, (large.)
3 lbs. granulated sugar.
2 oz. soda.
1 lbs. lard.
1 pt. molasses.
5 lbs. flour.
1 pt. water.
49
GINGER SNAPS, (large.)
2 lbs. sugar.
2 qt. molasses.
2 lbs. lard.
1 qt. water.
10 lbs. flour.
4 oz. soda.
Ginger and cinnamon.
50
CINNAMON JUMBLES.
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
2 lbs. butter.
1 pt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
1 oz. ammonia.
1/2 1b. crumbs.
Cinnamon.
20
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
51
NEW YEAR SEED CAKES.
2 lbs. sugar.
11 qt. milk.
11 lbs. butter.
1 OZ. soda.
41 lbs. flour.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Rub sugar, flour and butter as you would
for pie crust; add your soda and cream of
tartar, then mix the whole with the milk,
1 OZ. carraway seed; wash with milk. (hot
oven.)
52
WHITE MARCIPAN
8 lbs. sugar.
3 oz. ammonia
1/2 1b. lard.
3 qt water.
16 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
53
CINNAMON STICKS.
4 lbs. sugar.
16 eggs.
42 lbs. flour.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
After icing them let dry before baking.
54
PEANUT CAKE.
1 1b. peanuts, roasted 15 eggs.
4 lbs. sugar.
1/4 oz. ammonia
4 lbs. flour.
Water icing when baked.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
21
55
FRUIT STICKS.
2 lbs. sugar.
1 1b. almonds.
2 lbs. flour.
1 1b. currants.
8 eggs.
1/2 1b. citron.
1/6 oz. ammonia
Same as peanut.
Flavor with spices, dry before baking.
56
VANILLA STICKS.
4 lbs. sugar.
20 eggs.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
5 lbs. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
White of egg icing, let dry before baking.
57
LITTLE ANIS DROPS.
1 1b sugar.
7 eggs,
1 1b. flour.
(beat like sponge.)
Dry well before baking.
58
LANGENBURGER VANILLA.
1 1b. ornamenting sugar.
10 white of eggs to a froth.
14 oz flour.
Vanilla the same as Anis Drops; drop out
with the bag.
22
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
59
LEMON SNAPS FOR MACHINE. (3 nails)
6 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
2 oz. ammonia.
1 lbs. lard.
1 qt. milk.
10 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
60
GINGER SNAPS FOR MAHCINE, (3 mails.)
18 lbs. gran. sugar.
8 lbs. lard.
4 1/2 qt. molasses, dark. 45 lbs. flour.
qt. molasses, light. 1b. soda.
3 qt. water.
splet 1b. ginger.
4 OZ. salt.
1 oz. acid.
Wash them before baking.
61
MACAOON FOR MACHINE, (4 nails)
5 lbs. almond paste 5 lbs. powd. sugar.
30 to 40 whites.
1/2 lbs. gran. sugar.
Flavor with vanilla.
62
PEPPER NUTS FOR MACHINE, 4 nails.
4 qt. molasses.
16 lbs. flour.
1 qt. water.
1/4 1b. soda.
1/2 qt. oil.
10 eggs.
Flavor with spices, ginger, anis and pepper.
THE BAKERS HAND BOOK.
23
63
JUMBLES (use cutter.)
11 lbs. gran sugar. 1/2 oz. ammonia.
3/2 1b. butter.
4 eggs.
1 gill water.
3 lbs. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
64
JUMBLES, (Fried Cake Cutter)
1 2/2 lbs. sugar.
8 eggs.
3 4 oz. ammonia.
3 + 1b butter.
1/2 pt. water.
31 flour.
Flavor with lemon.
65
LEAF CAKES, (leaf cutter.)
1 1b. powd. sugar.
12 eggs.
butter.
3 4 ammonia.
31 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon and mace.
66
GEORGIA LEMON WAFERS.
2 lbs. sugar.
9 eggs.
lbs. butter.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
Cut in small pieces, and flatten in the pan.
24
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
67
SUSBERRY CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
4 eggs.
10 oz. butter.
1/2 gill water.
1 oz. ammonia.
Flavor with nutmeg.
Flour to make it stiff; cut out round; use
your fingers to make shape of a star.
68
GINGER NUTS.
1 qt. molasses.
3/2 1b. lard.
1/4 qt. water.
1/4 1b. granul. sugar.
2 oz. soda.
1/2 cornmeal.
21 lbs. flour.
1 1b. crumbs.
For Ginger cookies see No. 47.
69
HALF MOONS.
1 1b. butter.
4 eggs.
1 1b powd. sugar.
1/2 pt. milk.
1 2/2 lbs. flour.
OZ. ammonia.
1/2 1b. crumbs.
Work as little as possible; roll one long
strip as for sticks; flatten it, then ice with
white of egg frosting, and cut your half
moons; use sugar cake cutter.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
25
70
HONEY CAKES.
1 qt. honey.
1/2 pt. oil.
1 qt. molasses.
of qt. water.
5 eggs.
8 lbs. flour.
Flavor with anis and spices.
Bake single; ice with thin white of egg
frosting.
71
BUTTER S.
1 1b. flour.
1/4 oz. ammonia.
1 2/2 lbs. butter.
2 lbs. flour.
5 eggs.
Flavor with lemon.
Work it as little as possible, make small
pieces in shape of an S, wash with egg,
granulated sugar on top.
72
GERMAN COOKIES.
Use this same mixture; cut out in round
cakes; after baking ice them half white and
half chocolate.
73
RAILROAD STICKS.
Roll out one long strip as for sticks; use
bag to make two lines on top the long strip
(not too close together) fill the empty space
with jelly; cut after baking.
26
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
74
COCOANUT WAFFLES.
18 OZ. sugar.
10 eggs.
12 oz. flour.
Flavor with lemon.
Drop out with a table spoon on a light
greased pan; spread it as much as you can
with your spoon about like a sugar cooky;
put a little cocoanut on each, then bake in a
quick oven; bake them very light, use a
stick (as thick as a cigar) and roll it up
while hot, press the stick down well on the
end of each waffle; you can serve them with
ice cream or fill them with whipped cream.
75
ALMOND WAFFLES.
1/2 1b. macaroon mixture as in No. 61;
make it as thin as No. 47 with white of
egg; use like the cocoanut waffles.
76
CINNAMON WAFFLES.
4 oz. sugar.
1 OZ. almonds, fine.
4 oz. flour.
2 eggs.
Flavor with cinnamon.
Make it as thin as No. 74; use the same
way.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
27
77
DIAMOND CUTS.
3 lbs. sugar, brown. 12 eggs.
1 lbs. butter.
1/2 pt. milk.
5 lbs. flour.
1
OZ. ammonia.
Flavor with spices.
Scale of lbs. dough as No. 78; made it
long; 3 on a pan, (use egg wash) cut them
after baking.
78
ALMOND BREAD SLICES.
4 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. eggs.
7 lbs. flour.
1 pt. milk.
1 1b. almonds.
1 OZ. ammonia.
Scale off 1 1/2 lbs., roll it the length of pan,
3 on a pan; wash with egg wash after flat-
tening them some; when baked ice with
white of egg frosting.
79
ANOTHER, RICH,
6 lbs. sugar.
36 eggs.
9 lbs. flour.
oz. ammonia.
4 lbs. almonds.
1/2 citron.
Flavor with vanilla.
Use it like No. 78.
28
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
80 A.
FRIED CAKES.
1 1b. sugar.
1 qt. milk.
1/4 1b. lard.
6 eggs.
4 lbs. flour.
1/2 baking powder.
Flavor with mace and lemon.
80 B.
FRIED CAKES, (Cheap mixture.)
1 1b. sugar.
1 2/2 qt. milk.
1/4 lbs. lard.
42 lbs. flour.
2 eggs.
4 oz. bak'g powder.
Flavor with cinnamon.
81
SODA BISCUITS.
9 lbs. flour.
3 qt. milk.
11 lbs. lard.
2 oz. soda.
2 OZ. salt.
5 oz. cream of tartar.
82
CREAM CRULLERS, (Use as No. 5.)
1 qt. water.
1 lbs. flour.
1 1b. lard.
1 qt. eggs.
(No ammonia.)
Use bag and star tube to make rings on
greased paper; when your oil is hot enough,
catch hold on one end of the paper and
throw it in upside down; paper will come off
easily. Bake like fried cakes.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
29
83
BOSTON BROWN BREAD.
9 lbs. B. B. B. flour. 21 qt. water.
3 1/2 oz. soda.
1/2 molasses.
Bake in 1/2 lbs. loaves one hour; it is well
to put some water in the pan.
84
BOSTON BROWN BREAD.
1 cup of rye and graham flour.
1 cup of wheat flour.
2 cups indian meal.
1 scant cup molasses.
1 scant cup sour milk.
2 scant cups water.
2 teaspoonsful soda.
1/2 teaspoonful salt.
Steam for 3 hours and dry in an oven for
1/4 hour.
Loaf and Large Cakes.
85
AL MOND TARTS.
1/2 lbs. sugar.
1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 1b. almond paste.
30 eggs.
30
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
86
CHOC. ALMOND SPONGE CAKE.
lbs. sugar.
30 yolks.
1/2 1b. almond paste 20 whites, to a froth.
1/2 1b. flour.
2 OZ. chocolate
1/2 breadcrumbs
Flavor with spices.
87
ALMOND CAKE, (English.)
1/2 1b. fine almonds. 1 1b. sugar.
10 eggs.
Flavor with vanilla.
1/4 1b. crackers, smashed and sifted.
Beat up like sponge.
88
BREAD SPONGE.
1/4 1b. almonds, rubbed fine.
2 oz. breadcrumbs, with a little rum.
4 OZ. sugar.
8 eggs, when light.
1 OZ. chocolate.
2 oz. flour.
2 oz. citron.
Flavor with spices.
89
MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE.
1 qt. molasses.
4 eggs.
1 qt. water.
12-2 oz. soda.
1 1b. lard and butter
1
1b. sugar.
2 1b. raisins.
5 lbs. flour.
2 1b. currants.
1/2 1b. citron.
Bake slow.
Flavor with spices
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
31
90
STRAWEEY SHORT CAKE,
42 lbs. flour.
1/2 qt. milk.
1b. lard or butter. 1 oz. soda.
2 oz. cream of tartar.
Make it in two layers, with one layer of
strawberries between. Beat 10 whites of
eggs to a froth and put it on top; smooth
it and cut in squares with a berry on each
corner and one in the middle.
91
FANCY SHORT CAKE,
Use two layers of sponge cake, and put
whipped cream on top; ornament each
square nicely.
92
WINE CAKE.
5 1b. A. sugar.
30 eggs.
3 1b. lard.
2 qt. milk.
81 1b. flour.
1/2 1b. baking powder.
Flavor with mace and lemon.
93
WINE CAKE,
3 1b. A. sugar.
16 eggs.
1 1/2 1b. lard
1 qt. milk.
4 1b. flour
1 oz. soda.
2 oz. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
32
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
94
WINE CAKE.
1/2 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
3 1b. butter.
1 pt. milk.
2 1/2 1b. flour.
2 oz. baking powder.
For wine cakes rub sugar and lard light,
add your eggs, etc., and beat in your flour.
95
MOLASSES POUND CAKE,
4 OZ. powd. sugar.
6 OZ. butter.
1 pt. milk.
2 lbs. flour.
4 eggs.
1 OZ. soda.
1 pt. New Orleans Syrup.
Flavor with spices.
96
JELLY ROLLS, (for 4 rolls.)
2 pt. eggs.
2% lbs. powd. sugar.
1 pt. milk.
3 1/ lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
2 OZ. cream of tartar.
Flavor with lemon.
Each roll makes four 10 cent pieces.
97
LAYER CAKES.
2 1b. sugar.
22 lbs. flour.
1 pint milk.
4 oz. bak'g powder.
Rub with 12 eggs.
Flavor with lemon.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
33
98
SPONGE CAKE.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
12 eggs.
1 1b. flour.
Makes 3 one pound cakes.
99
I SPONGE CAKE CHARIOTTE RUSSE.
1 1b. sugar.
15 eggs.
offer 1b. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
Cut in sticks to fill pans; dissolve 1/4 ounce
gelatine in a little cream, add one qt.
whipped cream and 6 oz. sugar.
100
ANGEL FOOD.
1/2 lbs. powd. sugar. 1 qt. whites.
2/2 1b. patent flour. Beat to a froth.
1 oz. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
Mix sugar, flour and cream of tartar well
and sift it several times before you work it
in with the froth; dip your pans in water,
put them upside down before you beat your
eggs; when ready, scale off 7 oz.; it will
make 8; bake slow; as soon as they come out,
turn them upside down and leave them until
they are quite cold. Ice with water icing.
34
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
101
SPICE CAKE.
1 lbs. flour.
4 OZ. sugar.
1 1b. crumbs.
6 oz. butter.
1 pt. water.
1 oz. soda.
1 qt. molasses
2 eggs.
Flavor with spices.
102
VANILLA ROLLS.
10 oz. powd. sugar. 1 pt. of whites.
5
oz. winter wheat. 2 oz. corn starch.
1/2 OZ. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
Mix as No. 101; bake in a square pan, take
out carefully when cold; put on vanilla water
icing as you would jelly roll, and roll it; ice
the top also.
103
ROLLS.
1 1b. sugar.
13 eggs.
14 oz. winter wheat. Flavor with vanilla.
Bake on paper in a quick oven; roll up
while hot; put in chocolate icing instead of
jelly.
104
CURRANT CAKE,
12 lbs. sugar.
8 eggs.
10 oz. lard.
1 pt. milk.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 oz. soda.
1 1b. currants.
1 OZ. cream of tartar.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
35
105
SILVER CAKE.
3 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. white of eggs.
2 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
2 oz. cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla.
106
GOLD CAKE.
Use yolks instead the white of egg.
Rest the same as in 105.
107
JELLY SQUARE, (for one large.)
2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
1 1b. lard.
4 pt. milk.
6 lbs. flour.
1 oz. soda.
3 oz. cream of tartar. (hot oven)
Bake in two pans; put together with jelly;
on top white icing and jelly stripes.
108
COCOANUT SQUARE.
1 1/2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. eggs.
1 1b. butter.
11 pt. milk.
3 lbs. flour.
3 oz. bak'g powder.
For top use 1 pt. of whites, 2 lbs. powd.
sugar.
Sprinkle with cocoanut.
36
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
109
POUND CAKE.
3 lbs. sugar.
36 eggs.
3 lbs. butter.
3 lbs. flour.
Flavor with lemon and mace; (slow oven)
110
FRUIT CAKE.
To 3 lbs. sugar use the following:
6 lbs. currant.
1/2 gill brandy.
3 lbs. raisins.
1 oz. cinnamon.
1 1b. citron, cut fine.
1 gill molasses and lemon.
1 oz. cloves and nutmeg.
Flavor with mace.
111
LADY CAKE.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
1 1b. flour.
1 1b. butter.
1 pt. whites.
Flavor with almond.
Rub in half of your flour with the butter
after using half the eggs.
112
WHITE FRUIT CAKE.
To 1 1b. sugar use 1 1b. citron, 1/2 1b.
blanched almonds, 1/2 1b. sliced cocoanut,
(bake very slow).
Flavor with vanilla.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
37
113
GARFIELD SQUARE,
3 lbs. sugar.
1 oz. soda.
1b. lard.
1/2 oz. ammonia.
4 lbs. flour.
3 pt. sour milk.
Make two square pans; use 1 pt. molasses
for layer in the middle of the two, (No. 95)
jelly between; and on top jelly with cocoa-
nut.
114
SUNSHINE CAKE,
1 lbs. sugar.
speak 1b. patent flour.
1/20 of teaspoonful cream of tarar.
1/20 of teaspoonful baking powder.
1 qt. of whites to a froth; add 6 yolks.
Lemon flavor, the rest as in No. 100.
115
BUTTER SPONGE.
13 eggs.
1 1b. sugar.
3 yolks beat up as for sponge cake (warm);
then add 8 oz. hot butter (skim off); put in
1 lbs. flour; 1/2 teaspoonful baking powder;
bake like pound cake.
116
SULTANA CAKE,
1 1b. sugar.
9 eggs.
1 gill milk.
1 1b. butter.
1 oz. baking powder. 1 lbs. flour.
1 lbs. raisins.
Flavor with mace.
38
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK
117
COFFEE FLAVORED CAKE.
1 lbs. brown sugar. & butter and lard.
1 pt. strong coffee. 7 eggs.
24 lbs. flour.
1 1b. currants.
2 oz. bak'g powder. 1 tablespoon molasses.
Flavor with spices.
118
GERMAN OLGA CAKE.
Make a round layer of macaroon mixture;
put 20 to 24 macaroons on this layer and
bake; bake the same number of macaroons
of a smaller size to go on top of this and a
still smaller size to go on top. Add two
more layers of butter sponge with chocolate
between and chocolate iced; put it on the
first layer and ornament it.
119
WHITE KISSES.
6 whites of eggs to a froth.
1 1b. sugar; cocoanut, chocolate and plain.
120
COFFEE KISSES.
3 lbs. sugar, 1 pt. strong coffee. Cook to
the soft ball 40°; 12 whites to a froth.
Pour in sugar slowly and keep stirring it,
when cold bake on a smooth board.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
39
121
KISSES.
7 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. whites
1/4 1b. cocoa.
Warm this mixture, put on greased pans,
(drop out round). When dry baked in a slow
oven. Kettle and egg water for kisses
should not be used for anything else, unless
you clean them thoroughly.
122
SUNSHINE KISSES.
5 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. yolks.
10 oz. flour.
Flavor with vanilla.
Rub sugar well in half the yolks. Bake
on paper when dry.
123
STEAMED KISSES.
30 whites beat to a grood froth; add gradu-
ally 4 lbs. ornamenting sugar, beating it all
the time; then put it on steam and beat it,
having it well warmed up; when cold put it
on pans, any shape you desire.
124
GUM PASTE KISSES, (Tragand.)
2 oz. tragand, soaked for a few days in 1 1/
lbs. water, rub with 14 lbs. powd. sugar, 3
oz. alcohol; roll out thin; dip cutter in a
damp sponge; put on paper upside down;
when dry bake slow.
40
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
125
SHAM CONFECT.
5 lbs. sugar; cook to the soft ball 40°; 20
whites beat to a froth; beat it lively while
pouring in the sugar; when cold put on
light greased pans.
126
PASTRY.
1 1b. flour, 2/2 to 1 1b. butter; roll out 3 or
4 times. For Sugar Pretzels, Cream Rolls
and Slices, Oyster Patties, etc.
127
CHEESE STICKS.
1 lbs. flour.
6 oz. butter.
4 yolks.
1/2 oz. bak'g powder.
Mix with water and roll in 1/2 1b. butter,
with 1/2 1b. grated American Cheese; balance
like Pastry.
128
PIE CRUST.
4 lbs. flour.
1 oz. bak'g powder.
2 lbs. butter
1 qt. water.
Use milk to to wash pies with Washing
bottom with thick eggwash will prevent
pies from bursting.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
4I
129
CUSTARD FOR TWO LARGE PIES.
4 OZ. sugar.
1 qt. milk.
1 scant teaspoonful corn starch.
6 eggs.
Flavor with vanilla.
130
BOILED COCOANUT CUSTARD.
2 qt. milk.
6 oz. corn starch.
10 oz. sugar.
6 eggs.
8 OZ. cocoanut.
1 oz. butter.
Mix cornstarch with eggs.
131
PUMPKIN FOR FIVE.
1 can of pumpkin.
11 qt. milk.
16 oz. sugar.
1/2 qt. eggs.
5 oz. flour.
Flavor with cinnamon
1 tablespoonful molasses.
132
FINE LEMON CREAM FOR PIES.
2 lbs butter, well washed; 6 lbs. sugar;
10 qt. water; let this boil for 5 minutes.
Then grate 2 lemons on sugar; add juice of
15 lemons; 16 eggs, 1 lbs. corn starch; beat
up well in a large stone jar, pour in boil-
ing sugar and keep stirring it until smooth
42
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
133
For a gallon of canned fruit, apples,
peaches, etc , use 1 1b. sugar.
134
BUTTER BISCUITS.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 qt. water.
1/2 1b. butter.
3 eggs.
Flavor with lemon, mace and almonds.
135 A.
GERMAN NAPFUCHEN.
1/2 1b. sugar.
1 qt. water.
states 1b. butter.
1 OZ. salt.
4 eggs.
Raisins, citron, lemon and mace. Use
Fleischman's Yeast for 134 and 135 A.
135 B.
FILLING FOR CHEESE CAKE.
2 lbs. cheese.
3 eggs.
3 yolks
1/2 1b. sugar.
3 OZ. flour.
1/4 1b. butter.
1 pint milk.
Cinnamon.
136
COCOANUT MACAROONS.
2/2 pt whites to a froth. 1 1b. cocoanut.
5 oz. flour.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
THE BAKERS' HAND BOOK.
43
137
MACAOON STICKS.
1 1b. powd. sugar.
3 whites.
3/2 1b almond paste.
1 egg.
1b. flour.
Use white of egg icing; when dry bake in
a slow oven.
138
CINNAMON STICKS.
1 1b. almonds (chopped and sifted; off 1b.
ornamenting sugar; 6 whites to a froth.
Use white of egg icing, same as 137.
139
ALMOND CONFECT. S.
1 1b. paste, stiff mixture, 1/2 1b. sugar.
Wash with dissolved gelatine. Put citron
or cherries on top.
140
ALMOND CAKES.
1/2 1b chopped almonds 1/2 1b. powd. sugar.
5 whites to a froth. 1/4 1b. flour.
Vanilla flavor. Spread on pans with fork
in shape of a round cooky.
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Mix up the bread at eleven o'clock and let it
rise. At four o'clock roll out and cut into biscuits
two sizes, putting the small one on top and let it
rise till supper. Bake twenty minutes.
FRENCH BISCUIT
Mrs. Joseph Holt
4 pints of flour,
4 eggs,
4 teaspoons of sugar,
1 tablespoonful of butter,
1 teacup of yeast,
1 pint of sweet milk.
Work it well and let it rise. Work it the second
time and roll the dough thin. Cut out the biscuit,
lard one side and place one on top of another and
let it rise again.
SODA BISCUITS
1 quart flour,
1 pint of buttermilk,
1 tablespoon lard,
1/ teaspoon soda,
teaspoon salt,
Make into biscuits and bake quickly.
4
BREADS
BREAD - CRUMB BATTER
CAKES FOR BREAKFAST
One pint of bread-crumbs, moistened with milk
several hours before using. When ready to use,
beat an egg separately and add
1 pinch of salt,
1 pint of buttermilk,
1 teaspoon of soda.
Mix well and add 1 large spoon of flour to
make them turn well. Fry as you would any other
batter cake.
If wanted particularly nice, take half butter-
milk and half cream, instead of all buttermilk, or
use sweet milk with baking-powder and omit soda.
BREAD FRITTERS
E. D. P.
1 quart of sweet milk,
2 teacups of bread-crumbs,
2 tablespoons of sugar,
1 small teaspoon of soda,
2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, dissolved in warm
water,
2 eggs,
nutmeg and salt to taste,
5
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Boil the milk and soak the bread-crumbs. Add
sugar, then yolks of eggs, etc., and put soda and
cream of tartar last. Beat the 2 whites in last.
BROWN BREAD
V. C. G.
Set a sponge just as for white bread. Instead of
adding white flour, make of equal parts of graham
and rye flour. One cup of black molasses and
water enough to moisten. Stir with a spoon, and
do not knead as white bread. Bake in pans.
BUCKWHEAT CAKES
For breakfast cakes the batter must be made and
put to rise the night before in a warm place.
1 quart buckwheat flour,
4 tablespoons yeast,
1 teaspoon salt,
1 tablespoon molasses,
Warm water enough to make a thin batter.
If the batter should be sour when ready for use,
add a little soda. Serve with syrup or honey.
6
BREADS
CORN B R E A D
BATTER BREAD
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
1 cup of boiled rice,
1 pint of sifted meal,
2 well-beaten eggs,
A little salt,
Small piece of melted butter or lard,
1 teaspoon baking-powder,
Sweet milk to make a rather thin batter.
Pour in a well-greased earthen baking dish and
bake a half hour or more in a hot oven.
KENTUCKY BATTER BREAD
1 pint meal,
3 eggs,
1 teaspoon salt,
1 tablespoon melted butter.
Make a thin batter with sweet milk. Pour in a
baking-dish and bake of an hour, or till it is a
rich brown.
7
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SOFT BATTER BREAD
Mrs. H. C. McDowell
1 quart sweet milk,
1 pint sour cream or buttermilk,
1 pint of corn meal,
1 teaspoon soda,
1 dessertspoon salt,
6 eggs,
1 lump of butter size of an egg.
Bring milk to the boiling point, add the meal
gradually until it is like thin mush, add butter and
salt and let it cool. Then add some cream in which
soda is dissolved, then the eggs well beaten sepa-
rately and bake in a moderate oven. Cover till it
is risen. This amount is sufficient for 8 people.
MARCELLUS'S CORN
MUFFINS (No. 1)
1 pint buttermilk,
1/2 pint corn meal,
1 teaspoon soda,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
1 egg,
1 tablespoon melted lard.
8
BREADS
Beat the egg, add soda to buttermilk and 1
tablespoon melted lard and mix together. Have
muffin-rings hot and well greased and fill half full
and cook brown.
CORN MUFFINS (No. 2)
1 pint of buttermilk,
1/2 pint of white corn meal,
1 teaspoon of soda,
1/2 teaspoon of salt,
1 egg,
1 large kitchen spoon of rich cream,
1 large kitchen spoon of cooked rice or grits.
Mash the hominy till very smooth. Add salt,
egg, and cream. Mix buttermilk and soda and
pour in mixture. Beat the meal in last. Don't
make the batter too stiff. Have muffin-rings hot
and well greased. Fill nearly full and bake in a
hot, quick oven.
MARCELLUS'S CORN-MEAL
BATTER CAKES
1 tablespoon lard,
1 pint corn meal,
1 pint of sour milk,
9
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1 small teaspoon soda in milk and stir till it foams,
1 egg,
1/2 teaspoon salt.
Beat egg and pour milk over it and add meal.
Then mix in the melted lard, 1 tablespoonful.
Have griddle very hot and well greased and put on
with spoon in small cakes and fry.
E G G BREAD
Pour a little boiling water over 1 quart of meal
to scald it. Add a teaspoon of salt and stir in yolks
of 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon of lard, and
butter melted. Add the well-beaten whites last.
Bake in moderate oven till well done-nearly an
hour.
JOHNNIE CAKE
1 quart meal,
1 pint warm water,
1 teaspoon salt.
Sift meal in a pan and add water and salt. Stir
it until it is light, and then place on a new,
clean board and place nearly upright before the
fire. When brown, cut in squares, butter nicely,
and serve hot.
10
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SPOON CORN BREAD
3 eggs,
nearly a quart of buttermilk,
1 teacup of sweet milk,
a light teaspoonful of soda,
lard the size of a walnut,
4 or 5 large spoonfuls of corn meal (after it is
sifted).
Bake in an earthen dish an hour. Serve with a
spoon.
HANOVER ROLLS
Miss Dabney
Sift twice 2 quarts of flour,
Add 4 tablespoons yeast,
Add 1 tablespoon lard or butter,
1 tablespoon sugar,
1 dessertspoon salt and a pinch of soda.
Use enough lukewarm water to make the mass
soft enough to knead well, and put where it will
rise. When light, grease the hands and make into
rolls. Let it rise again and then bake.
12
BREADS
HOW TO MAKE BREAD
Mrs. John C. Berryman
1 cup of yeast,
1 quart of flour,
1 teaspoon of lard,
1 teaspoon of salt,
1 teaspoon of granulated sugar,
1/2 pint of water.
Put the yeast, lard, salt, and sugar in the flour,
then the water. Work till it blisters, which will
take from 15 to 20 minutes. Put in a little lard
on top and put in a wooden bowl. Let it rise from
5 to 6 hours, then make out into rolls. Let them
rise for 11 hours, then bake in a quick oven.
If for loaves, they will require 2 hours for sec-
ond rising and a moderate oven for baking.
LAPLANDS
1 pint milk,
1/2 pint flour,
2 eggs,
1 dessertspoon lard.
Beat separately and light as for cake. Bake in
small shallow pans.
13
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
LIGHT ROLLS
2 pints flour,
1 tablespoon of sugar,
1 teaspoon salt,
2 eggs,
1/2 cup of lard,
1/2 cup of home-made yeast.
First mix lard, flour, and sugar. Then stir in
other ingredients. Add enough milk and warm
water to make thin batter. Set in warm place to
rise, and then work in flour to make pretty stiff
dough and very smooth. If put to rise at 12, will
be ready at 6. Don't work much last time. Make
out in pretty shape and put to rise, and bake in
quick oven.
MUFFINS
Mrs. Richard H. Hanson
4 eggs,
1 quart sweet milk,
1 quart flour,
1 tablespoon melted butter,
A little salt.
Beat the eggs separately. Add milk and butter
to yolks and then the flour. Add whites last and
bake in hot muffin-irons.
14
BREADS
CREAM MUFFINS
1 1/2 pints flour,
2 eggs.
Use whites of eggs only. Mix eggs and little
cream, little salt, and then the flour. Use enough
cream to make batter right consistency. Grease
muffin-irons. When hot, pour half full and bake
quickly.
MARCELLUS'S WHEAT
MUFFINS
2 cups flour,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1 teaspoon salt,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
2 tablespoons sugar,
1 cup milk,
1 well-beaten egg,
Bake in muffin tins and serve hot.
POPOVERS
Mrs. Ellet Cabell
Beat 2 eggs very stiff and add 1 cup of milk, 1
cup of flour, and a pinch of salt. Have small tins
15
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
very hot and well buttered. Fill half full with the
mixture, bake in a quick oven 20 minutes and eat
at once.
RICE CAKES
Cook 1 cup of rice, and add to it 1/2 cup of cream,
1 teaspoon baking-powder, 2 tablespoons flour, 2
eggs, well beaten. Fry in lard or butter just
enough to grease skillet.
RUSK OR SWEET BREAD
1 pint of flour,
1 pint of white sugar,
1 teacup of melted lard,
12 pints of water,
2 kitchen spoons of yeast.
Make into a batter at night, set in a warm place
to rise. The next morning work into this sponge
2 beaten eggs,
3 pints of flour.
Set in a warm place to rise again. When light,
make into pretty shapes let rise again, and when
light, bake. Spread on the rolls when warm white
of an egg and sifted cinnamon.
The dough should be as soft as you con make it
to work well.
16
BREADS
SALLY LUNN (No. 1)
1 teaspoon salt,
1 quart flour,
1 pint of sweet milk,
1/2 cup of sugar,
1 small cup of yeast.
Make a batter and put in warm place to rise,
and in 3 hours, when it is light enough, add 5 eggs
which have been beaten separately, 1/2 cup of melted
butter. Add 1/2 pint flour to make a stiff batter.
Spread in pans 1 inch thick, and let rise, then bake.
Serve two at a time with melted butter between.
S ALLY LUNN (No. 2)
Bake Sally Lunn exactly as a loaf of bread, with
steady heat. It requires a longer time, however.
Do not make the batter too thin.
1 pint of milk,
3 eggs,
1 tablespoon of butter or nice sweet lard,
1 dessertspoon of sugar,
1 small teacup of yeast, and flour to make batter
thick enough for the spoon to stand straight. This
makes delicious drop muffins. If the batter is too
thin it is apt to fall before it is thoroughly baked
17
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
and leave the inside of it a dough; if too thick, it
is only French rolls.
SALLY LUNN (No. 3)
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
pints flour,
3 eggs,
1 tablespoon white sugar,
1/2 cup melted butter,
1 teacup yeast,
1 pint milk.
Make into a stiff batter, having beaten ingredi-
ents well together. Let it rise for 5 hours. Then
add 1/2 teaspoon of soda in a little warm water and
pour the batter in a well-greased cake mould.
Bake 40 minutes and serve hot with butter.
SALT-RISING - BREAD (No. 1)
pint of milk,
2 tablespoons of corn meal,
1 teaspoon of salt,
1 tablespoon of lard,
1 tablespoon of white sugar.
Pour boiling milk over salt and meal and stir
well. Set to rise at night. Next morning add
18
EGGS
OMELET
6 eggs beaten separately,
1 cup of milk,
1 tablespoon of butter.
Mix milk, yolks, butter, salt, and pepper, and
add the whites last. Pour into a hot pan which
has been well buttered, and cook quickly on top of
oven. When it begins to thicken, put inside the
oven and brown. Cut in half and roll and serve
hot at once. All omelets should be served imme-
diately.
MARCELLUS' OMELET
4 eggs beaten separately,
1 cup of bread-crumbs,
1 teaspoon butter, salt and pepper to taste,
1 cup of milk.
Add the milk to the yolks, also the crumbs and
other ingredients. Beat the whites in last. Have
the skillet moderately hot, pour in and cook till it
settles. Then bake in oven till a rich brown.
Double the omelet and serve at once.
25
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
CLAM SOUP
24 clams,
gallon water,
2 tablespoons butter,
2 onions,
Salt and pepper to taste.
Chop the clams and use the meat and liquor and
add the water. Do not boil, but cook gently till it
begins to thicken. Season, and just before taking
from the stove add 1 pint cream or rich milk.
Pour in tureen, add a little parsley, and serve at
once.
CLEAR SOUP OR BOUILLON
E. D. P.
Cut up the lean of coarse beef into small pieces.
1 good-sized onion,
Peel and cut up before
1 good-sized carrot,
using.
1 good-sized turnip.
Salt, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper to taste,
4 whole cloves.
Fry with 1 tablespoon of butter in soup-kettle.
When it begins to look whitish, pour over it the
stock from 1 chicken. Boil the chicken in 1 gallon
32
SOUPS
of water in early morning, and make stock in
afternoon. Boil 1 hour, strain and put away till
next day for aspic or bouillon.
For bouillon, beat an egg and let it come to a
boil in the bouillon, and strain before serving.
CORN SOUP (No. 1)
1 can of corn,
1 quart of boiling milk,
Butter, salt, and pepper to taste.
Press the corn through the colander and add to
the quart of boiling milk, and season to taste.
Serve hot with toast in squares.
MRS. DAVENPORT'S CORN
SOUP (No. 2)
12 ears of corn,
11 pints of water,
2 pints new milk,
2 eggs,
2 tablespoons of butter,
1
tablespoon of flour.
Split and cut off the corn, which you must boil
in the water until done and the water is nearly ex-
hausted; then add the milk and let it come to a
33
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
boil, some of which pour in the beaten eggs and
return to the kettle; work flour with the butter,
with pepper and salt to taste; stir into the soup
and then serve.
CREAM OF CELERY SOUP
E. D. P.
1 quart of chicken soup,
1 dessertspoonful of butter,
1 dessertspoonful of cornstarch,
3 heads of celery,
1 quart of milk or cream.
Take the white part of the celery and chop it as
fine as possible. Put it to boil with the milk, and
let it cook until it can be rubbed through a sieve.
If too thick, after it has been rubbed through, add
a little more milk. Return it to the pot, and add
the chicken soup. When it has boiled about 10
minutes, rub the butter and cornstarch together,
and stir in until it thickens; then season to the taste
with salt and white pepper.
G UMBO SOUP
1 chicken,
2 pints okra,
34
SOUPS
1 pint tomatoes,
1 tablespoon butter.
Fry the chicken and pour over 1/2 gallon of boil-
ing water and cook till the meat drops from the
bones. Remove bones. Prepare the vegetables
and add to the soup and boil. Then add thicken-
ing and season to taste, or as for any other soup.
Before pouring off add the butter. Add hot water
as it boils down. Serve hot, with rice boiled dry.
CHICKEN GUMBO
Mrs. Simms
Fry 1 chicken. When done, cover with boiling
water and cook until it is ready to fall apart. Re-
move the chicken, place in a dish to cool, and pour
the liquor into the soup-pot. Add chicken, minced
or shredded very fine.
Fry 1 onion with 1 slice of fat pork. Rinse the
skillet out with a little water and pour all into the
soup. Put 1 can of tomatoes on to boil with 2
quarts of water. Slice 1/2 green pepper and 1
small red pepper very fine and add to tomatoes.
Boil 2 hours. Take 2 cans of okra, carefully re-
moving all the tough pods, 1/2 cup of rice, and 1
tablespoon of minced parsley. Add to the soup
35
SOUPS
MARCELLUS'S POTATO SOUP
(No. 1)
3 large-sized potatoes,
Butter,
1 cup of cream,
Salt and pepper to taste.
Cut the potatoes up in fine pieces and boil 2
hours in 2 quarts of water. Add seasoning and
piece of butter size of an egg and 1 cup of cream.
Serve hot.
POTATO SOUP (No. 2)
1 quart of potatoes,
2 ounces of butter,
2 pints milk,
4 eggs.
Boil the potatoes soft, and smooth with a little
boiling water until a thin batter. Stir the but-
ter, pepper, and salt to taste into the milk. Beat
the eggs and add to potatoes. When milk boils,
pour over the potatoes. and do not return to the
fire.
41
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
PUREE OF CHICKEN
E. D. P.
1 large chicken,
1 small knuckle of veal,
3 quarts of water,
1/ pound of rice,
1 bunch of parsley,
1 blade of mace,
1/2 teaspoonful of celery seed,
1 coffeecupful of boiling cream,
Salt and pepper to the taste.
Put the chicken and veal on with 3 quarts of
water, together with the rice, parsley, mace, and
the celery seed, tied in a muslin bag. Boil gently
until the chicken is thoroughly done, taking care to
skim well all the time it is boiling. Take out the
veal, bone, cut, and pound the chicken in a mor-
tar moisten it with a little of the stock, and pass
it through the colander. Strain the stock, press-
ing the rice through the sieve. Return the chicken
to the stock, season, and just before serving, pour
in the cream. Heat thoroughly, but don't boil.
42
SOUPS
SALSIFY SOUP
1 quart of salsify cooked in water till tender,
1 quart of new milk. Mash the salsify through
sieve.
Add to boiling milk 1 tablespoon flour and 1
large tablespoon butter. Pour all together and
season with pepper and salt.
SIMPLE CHICKEN SOUP
E. D. P.
1 coffeecupful of cream,
1 teacupful of well-boiled rice,
1 blade of mace,
1 saltspoonful of celery seed,
1 dessertspoonful of cornstarch.
When boiling a pair of chickens for dinner, put
in the water a blade of mace and a saltspoonful of
celery seed. After the chickens are done, take out
2 quarts of the water; skim well, and add the
cream or rich milk then the rice and the dessert-
spoonful of cornstarch; season to the taste. It
will require about 3 quarts of water for a pair of
chickens.
43
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SOUP STOCK OF BEEF
E. D. P.
1 large shin-bone,
4 quarts of water,
2 pounds of lean beef,
4 carrots,
3 onions,
4 turnips,
1 bunch of parsley,
1 teaspoonful of celery seed,
Salt to the taste.
Put the bone, which has been previously cracked
in 3 pieces, into the soup-pot, with the water, and
beef cut into pieces the size of an egg, and some
salt. Boil slowly for 1 hour, skimming well until all
of the grease is taken off. Scrape the carrots, peel
the onions and turnips, then quarter, and, with the
celery seed, add to the soup. Let this boil slowly
for 4 hours take off, strain into a stone jar, and
keep in a cool place. Veal stock can be made in
the same way, by getting a large knuckle of veal
and adding 2 pounds of the meat.
44
Entrees
ASPIC JELLY
4 pints of clear soup,
1 box of Cox's gelatine,
1 teacup of wine,
2 tablespoons of vinegar,
Salt and pepper to taste,
Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth.
Stir all well while cooking till it begins to boil.
See that the gelatine is well dissolved, so that it
will not stick to bottom of kettle. Do not stir
after it boils hard. When the eggs break away
and the jelly looks clear, remove from stove and
strain through a clean cloth. Have the cloth soak-
ing in boiling water, and squeeze well out of the
hot water before running the jelly through.
Put chicken in mould, pour sauce over while
warm, and serve with truffles.
63
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
BOUDINS A LA RICHELIEU
E. D. P.
1 pound of raw turkey or chicken breast,
pound of panada,
1/2 pound of butter,
1/4 pound of pickled pork,
3 eggs,
4 truffles,
Salt and pepper to taste.
Grind the turkey or chicken. Cream the butter
with the panada and add the meat, having pork
ground with the meat. Break in the eggs, one at a
time, beating the mixture well. Slice a part of the
truffles in this mixture, reserving the rest for the
sauce. Pour in the liquor from the truffles. Put
this in the Boudin moulld, place in bread-pan
with water around, and boil of of an hour.
Serve with champignon sauce.
CHICKEN ASPIC WITH
WALNUTS
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Make a clear consomme; to 11 cups of con-
somme add box of Cox's gelatine soaked in
64
ENTREES
PRESSED CHICKEN
E. D. P.
1 chicken,
3 sets of sweetbreads,
1 teacup of cream,
1 onion,
A little parsley,
Salt and pepper to taste,
1 tablespoon of butter.
Boil the chicken till tender, also the sweet-
breads. When cold, grind through the meat-
grinder. Boil the onion in the cream and season
with parsley, salt, and pepper. Thicken with a
little flour rubbed in the butter. When it begins
to thicken, strain and mix with chicken and sweet-
breads. Mould with aspic jelly. This makes 2
moulds.
Q UENELLES
E. D. P.
Mix 1 pound of cold turkey or chicken breast with
6 ounces of panada,
1/ pound of pickled pork,
1/4 pound of butter,
1/2 teacup of cream,
71
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Onion, salt, and pepper to taste,
1 lemon.
Shape 3 inches long. Roll in flour and drop in
boiling water.
Serve with champignon sauce.
RISSOLES
1/ pound of ground turkey heart,
3 sets of sweetbreads chopped,
1/4 pound of butter,
1/ pound of flour,
1 pint of strong veal stock,
3 eggs.
Put the butter in a stew-pan; when it bubbles
add the flour; let it cook, but do not let it boil;
add the stock, then the turkey and sweetbreads,
and when it is thick, add the eggs; cook the whole
until it is as stiff as the panada for croquettes.
Set it aside to cool, then add enough cream to make
it soft, but not too wet. Make fine pastry thick
as a biscuit, and cut with a biscuit cutter then roll
it out thin. Put a large spoonful in centre of each,
and turn over like a turn-over pie; dip in eggs,
roll in vermicelli, and fry a light brown.
72
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
liquor, season with salt, pepper, and mace, and
boil. When it boils, stir in the butter and flour till
very smooth. Add 1 large cup of bread-crumbs
and mix thoroughly. Add the minced chicken, and
cook all for a few minutes and set aside to cool.
Mould into croquettes, dip in the beaten egg and
then cracker-dust. Let them stand awhile and fry
in boiling lard, and drain as soon as done.
VERY FINE CROQUETTES
E. D. P.
1 pound of cooked turkey or chicken,
3 teaspoons of chopped parsley,
1 pint of cream,
1 large onion,
1/6 pound of butter,
1/ pound of bread-crumbs,
Salt, pepper, and cayenne pepper to taste.
Sprinkle the parsley over the meat and run
through grinder twice. Boil the onion with the
cream and strain onion out, and when cool pour
cream over bread-crumbs, add the butter, and make
a stiff mixture, then add salt, etc. Beat in the
meat and mix all together.
If too stiff, add a little cream and make as soft
as can be handled. Put on ice to get stiff. Then
80
CROQUETTES
roll and shape. Dip in egg, and roll in bread-
crumbs, and fry in hot lard.
EGG CROQUETTES
Miss Annie White
For 6 croquettes take 6 eggs,
1 pint milk,
1 tablespoon butter,
1 tablespoon flour,
1 tablespoon chopped parsley,
10 drops onion juice,
1 teaspoon salt,
1 teaspoon pepper.
Boil eggs hard and drop in cold water, and,
after removing shells, squeeze through potato-
masher. Boil the milk, and add the flour and but-
ter, which have been well mixed, then add other
ingredients.
Turn in a platter to cool. Let the mixture
stand 3 hours. Shape and drop in egg and bread-
crumbs and fry in boiling fat.
FISH CROQUETTES
Rub together 3 tablespoons of flour, 1 of but-
ter, stir into pint of rich milk; add a teaspoon
81
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
of finely chopped parsley, and a quarter of a tea-
spoon onion juice. Boil until it thickens ; add 2
cups of cold boiled fish, and boil up again ; season
with salt and pepper to taste. When cold, take
out and dip in egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry.
OYSTER CROQUETTES
Drain 1 quart oysters and chop fine. Take 1
pint bread-crumbs and add 1 teaspoon baking-
powder. Mix oysters and crumbs and pour over
1 cup of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and 1
tablespoon butter. Fix well and add 2 well-beaten
eggs. Make into shapes and dip in egg, roll in
cracker-dust, and fry a rich brown.
RICE CROQUETTE S
Mrs. Strauder Goff
11 pints boiled rice,
3 eggs,
Butter size of 11 eggs,
3 tablespoons cream,
teaspoon scraped onion,
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste,
A small pinch of mace.
Reserve 2 whites of the eggs to roll the cro-
82
CROQUETTES
quettes in. Mix the ingredients and cook in a
double boiler till quite thick. Allow to cool. Form
into croquettes and fry in deep fat, after rolling
in the whites of the eggs and bread-crumbs.
The seasoning can be varied by omitting the
mace and adding a half a teacup of grated cheese
or grated ham, or a cup of chopped chicken or
brains. They should always be served with to-
mato sauce.
SALMON CROQUETTES
1 can salmon,
2 eggs,
1/2 cup of butter,
1 cup of fine bread-crumbs,
1 teaspoon baking-powder in bread-crumbs,
cup of cream,
1/4 teaspoon of cayenne pepper,
Salt to taste.
Mix all together and make in pear shape. Roll
in egg and cracker-dust, and fry light brown.
83
Sauces for Entrées, Fish,
Fowl and Meats
AGRA DOLCE
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Mix together
2 heaping tablespoonfuls of brown sugar,
1/4 bar of grated chocolate,
1 tablespoonful each of shredded candied orange
and lemon peel,
10 blanched almonds, cut,
cupful of currants,
1 cupful of vinegar.
Let them soak for 2 hours, then pour over the
cooked meat and simmer for 10 minutes.
Nice for mutton, venison, sweetbreads, calf's
head, etc.
117
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
A GOOD SAUCE FOR COLD
MEATS AND FISH
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Yolks of 4 eggs,
teaspoonful of salt,
Dash of cayenne pepper,
4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil,
1 tablespoonful of hot water,
1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar.
Beat the yolks, add the oil and water. Stand the
bowl in boiling water till it thickens. Remove and
add salt, pepper, and vinegar. It should be creamy
and of the consistency of mayonnaise. A few
chopped capers, olives, and cucumbers make it a
good Tartare sauce, and a little tomato purée will
make it a red sauce for fish.
APPLE SAUCE FOR D UCK
Pare 12 apples and cover with small quantity of
water and cook till tender. Strain through a col-
ander and add cup of sugar.
CAPER SAUCE
The yolks of two eggs,
cup of olive oil,
118
SAUCES
3 tablespoons of vinegar,
1 of mustard,
1 teaspoon of sugar,
1/6 teaspoon of red pepper,
1 teaspoon of salt,
1 teaspoon of onion juice,
1 tablespoon of chopped capers,
1 tablespoon of chopped cucumber pickles.
Make the same as mayonnaise dressing, add the
chopped things last. This sauce can be used with
fish and boiled meats, or meats served in jelly.
CELERY SAUCE
Take cream or rich milk, and boil with pieces
of celery till the flavor is extracted. Remove it
and season sauce with salt and pepper, and add
butter, then a little flour to thicken it.
Serve with vegetables.
CHAMPIGNON SAUCE FOR
BOUDINS
Cut up 1 can of champignons and let them boil
hour. Add half can of truffles, cut up and
boil with champignons, cayenne pepper and salt to
taste. As the champignons are salty, do not put
too much. Add 1 pint of rich cream, and while
119
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
boiling, add 1 tablespoon of butter with a little
flour to thicken the sauce.
Pour over Boudins and serve.
CHAMPIGNON SAUCE FOR
QUENELLES
E. D. P.
2 cans of champignons,
1 quart of clear soup,
1 dessertspoon of flour,
1 large spoon of butter,
2 tablespoons of wine,
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Cut the champignons into small pieces and cook
in their own liquor for 1/2 hour. Let the clear soup
come to a boil and add the champignons with the
salt and pepper. Rub flour and butter together
and stir in the champignons until thick as cream.
Heat the wine and pour in just before serving.
CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR
TURKEY
E. D. P.
1 teacup of mashed sweet potatoes,
1 teacup of mashed and boiled chestnuts,
120
SAUCES
1 dessertspoon of butter,
1 wineglass of cream,
Salt and black pepper to the taste.
Mix potatoes, chestnuts, cream, and season. Put
stuffing in when turkey is half-roasted. Baste
often.
CRANBERRY SAUCE FOR
TURKEY
Wash 1 quart of berries. Cover with water in
a porcelain kettle and cook till the skins burst.
Mash and strain through a colander and return to
fire. Add 1 cup of sugar and cook till thick.
Mould in any shape and serve cold.
CUCUMBER SAUCE
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
1 dozen fresh green cucumbers,
1 dozen white onions,
1 quart of good cider vinegar.
Peel and grate the cucumbers and onions and
place in a sieve to drain. Place the pulp in a bowl
and add black and cayenne pepper and salt to taste
and 1 quart or more of good vinegar.
121
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Put in wide-mouthed bottles or little glass jars
and put 1 tablespoon of olive oil in each before
sealing.
This recipe requires no cooking, and will keep
2 years in a cool place.
DRAWN BUTTER FOR FOWL
Melt 1/4 pound butter and stir in 2 teaspoons
flour. Mix thoroughly and add 6 teaspoons of
cold water, a little at a time. Cook till smooth.
Add salt and pepper to taste. If preferred, add
oysters while mixture is simmering.
FISH SAUCE (No. 1)
V. C. G.
1 pint of boiled milk,
2 tablespoons of butter,
1 tablespoon of flour,
1 tablespoon of wine,
1 tablespoon of capers,
1 egg,
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Put the milk in a saucepan, and when it comes
to a boil stir in a well-beaten egg, salt and pepper.
129
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
BLUE GRASS CORN PUDDING
8 ears of corn,
1 tablespoon of butter,
1 teacup of milk,
1 teaspoon of flour,
Salt and pepper to taste,
3 eggs.
Grate the corn and scrape cob with a knife. Beat
the eggs light and stir in cream, butter, and flour,
and mix with the milk and add the corn. Season
and bake of an hour.
MRS. TALBOT'S C o R N P U D D I N G
1 dozen ears of sweet corn,
1 quart of new milk (or use milk and cream),
2 tablespoons of butter,
1 tablespoon of sugar,
1 teaspoon of salt.
Split the corn and scrape well with a knife.
Stir in the milk. Break butter into pieces and
scatter on top. Add the sugar and stir all well.
Cook 1/2 hour in a hot oven, stirring every 5 min-
utes until nearly done, then let the top brown.
136
VEGETABLES
CORN FRITTERS (No. 1)
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Beat 2 eggs without separating,
1 cup milk,
1 pint canned corn.
Little salt, sugar, and enough flour for thick
batter: add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder to
flour; 1 tablespoon butter; fry in hot lard.
CORN FRITTERS (No. 2)
2 eggs,
1 teacup of new milk,
2 tablespoons butter,
2 tablespoons flour,
1 quart grated corn.
Mix thoroughly and drop with a spoon in hot
butter and lard mixed, and fry a rich brown. Salt
and pepper to taste.
BAKED E G G - P L A N T
Do not peel the plant, but parboil it till tender,
and then throw it into cold water. Then peel and
cut it open and remove the seed and fill with a
dressing made of bread-crumbs, a little chopped
137
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
onion, butter, salt, and pepper. Put in a pan
with a little water and bake a rich brown.
FRIED EGG-PLANT -
After peeling the plant cut in slices and lay in
salt water. Steam till tender. Make a batter of
2 eggs beaten separately,
1 teacup of sour cream,
1 teaspoon salt,
1/ teaspoon soda,
Flour enough to thicken.
Dip the egg plant in the batter and fry a rich
brown. Serve hot.
G PLANT PUDDING
E.D.P.
2 egg-plants,
Yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs,
1/4 pound of butter,
1 teaspoon of chopped onion,
1 teaspoon of sweet marjoram,
3 teaspoons of chopped parsley,
Salt and cayenne pepper to the taste,
1 raw egg.
Split the plants and soak in salt and water 2
138
VEGETABLES
hours. Parboil them, peel and press all the water
out. Chop them fine mash the yolks of eggs and
mix together. Add onion, parsley, and marjoram,
rubbed and sifted. Add the raw egg, after beating
well; then the melted butter, salt, and pepper.
Put in baking-dish with grated cracker on top,
and bake 1/2 hour.
GREEN CORN CUSTARD
WITH BROILED TOMATOES
Mrs. Daniel B. Wentz
1 cupful of corn, freshly cut from the ears of
young corn,
4 eggs, beaten slightly,
1 teaspoon of salt,
A little paprika,
A few drops of onion juice,
11 cups of milk.
Bake in buttered moulds in hot water. When
firm, turn out and place on dish with broiled toma-
toes around. Serve with cream sauce made as fol-
lows:
1 tablespoon of butter,
1 tablespoon of flour,
1 cup of milk.
Cook till thick.
139
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
HOMINY PUFFS
1 quart of cold boiled hominy,
4 heaping tablespoons of flour,
3 teaspoons of baking powder,
1 coffeecup of sweet milk,
1 teaspoon of salt,
4 eggs.
Take thoroughly cooked hominy when cold and
stir in the well-beaten yolks, then flour, milk, and
salt alternately with the baking-powder. Add
last the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth and
stirred in slowly. Have lard boiling and drop the
mixture in with a spoon, and fry rich brown.
MACARONI
1 pound macaroni,
1/4 pound butter,
1/ pound grated cheese.
Boil the macaroni till tender, and then put in
a deep dish and spread over it pieces of butter and
scatter the grated cheese. Put in another layer of
macaroni, and so on. Put bits of butter on top,
with salt and pepper, and bake well.
140
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
CREAM PIE (No. 2)
Miss Mary Bashford
4 eggs-yolks only, leaving whites for a meringue,
1 pint of cream instead of butter,
3 kitchen spoons of flour,
pint of sugar.
Flavor and bake. Meringue on top.
Make lemon pies the same way, using juice of
2 lemons.
IRISH POTATO PIE
1 pint mashed potatoes,
1/2 pint cream,
4 eggs,
pound sugar,
1 orange,
1 cup of butter.
Cook and mash the potatoes. Beat the eggs
together, add sugar and butter and beat well.
Then pour in the cream and add the potatoes and
stir well. Flavor with the juice of 1 orange.
Bake in paste and cover with meringue of well-
beaten whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar.
206
PASTRY
LEMON PIE (No. 1)
Mrs. R. H. Hanson
1 cup of buttermilk,
11 cups sugar,
4 eggs,
1 tablespoon butter,
1 tablespoon cornstarch,
Juice and rind of 2 lemons.
Beat the yolks and reserve the whites for the
meringue.
Add the other ingredients and cook in a porce-
lain pan till thick.
Fill the shells, spread the meringue on top and
brown in the oven.
LEMON PIE (No. 2)
Miss Mary Bashford
6 eggs, using 2 whites,
2 lemons, if juicy-more, if dry,
1 pint of sugar,
pint of butter,
1 spoon of sifted flour.
Add lemon juice last. Cook and add meringue.
207
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
MINCE MEAT FOR PIES (No. 1)
R. v. J.
4 pounds of fresh tongue,
3 pounds of suet,
8 pounds of chopped apples,
3 pounds of currants,
4 pounds of seeded raisins,
6 pounds of white sugar,
2 pounds of citron, cut in small pieces,
4 lemons, grated rind and juice,
1 ounce of cinnamon,
1/4 ounce of cloves,
1- ounce of allspice,
4 nutmegs, grated,
1 quart of Madeira wine,
1 pint of cider,
1 quart of brandy or good whisky.
Boil the tongue in salted water until tender, and
when cold, chop fine. Remove every particle of
membrane from the suet and chop it fine, and mix
with the tongue with enough salt to remove the
fresh taste.
To this, add the apples, sugar, fruit, spices and
other ingredients. Mix all together and cover
close.
208
PASTRY
If too dry when ready for use, moisten with a
little sweet cider.
MINCE MEAT FOR PIES (No. 2)
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
5 pounds of beef tongue, cooked and chopped
fine,
4 pounds of suet (be careful to remove strings),
2 pounds of raisins,
2
pounds of cherry preserves,
1
pound of damson preserves,
1
pound of peach preserves,
1
pound of pear preserves,
11 pounds of ginger preserves,
1 1/2 pounds of dried peaches, stewed,
1
pound of citron,
1
pound of currants,
2 nutmegs,
1
tablespoon of cinnamon,
1
tablespoon of cloves and spices, mixed,
5 pounds of white sugar.
Mix thoroughly with 1 pint of sherry wine and
1 pint of good whisky, and put in glass jars.
209
THE BLUE GRASS cook BOOK
NUTMEG PIE
Mrs. Strauder Goff
3 eggs beaten separately,
1 pint sugar,
1 medium-sized nutmeg,
Piece of butter the size of an egg.
Mix, adding the whites last. This will make 2
pies.
ORANGE PIE
4 oranges,
1 quart milk,
2 tablespoons cornstarch,
3 eggs,
1 cup of sugar.
Peel, seed, and cut into small pieces the four
oranges. Add the sugar and let it stand. Boil
the quart of milk and stir in the cornstarch, which
has been mixed with a little water. Add the yolks
of the three eggs, which have been well beaten.
Cook till a thick custard, and after cooled add the
orange and sugar. Cook in pastry, and then make
a meringue of the three whites and spread on top
and brown slightly.
210
PASTRY
PUMPKIN PIE
Cut the pumpkin in small pieces and stew in a
little water. Strain, and to 1 quart of the pump-
kin add 1/2 pint of sugar, 1 cup of cream, cinnamon,
and allspice to taste, 3 eggs, and 3 tablespoons
butter. Beat it well. Line a pie-plate and pour
the custard over it. Make a top with strips of
pastry and bake till a rich brown.
STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE
E.D.P.
Rub 2 tablespoons of butter in
1 quart of flour, with
1/2 teaspoon of salt, and
2 teaspoons of baking powder,
Sweet milk enough for soft dough.
Mix lightly and put in pan the shape of Sally
Lunn. Bake quickly. When done, split and but-
ter while hot. In splitting any kind of hot bread,
cut around the crust with a sharp knife and open
carefully with a fork. Have fresh strawberries
that have been well sweetened and spread over one-
half; then lay on other half and spread with berries.
Serve with whipped cream.
211
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SWEET POTATO PIE (No. 1)
Mrs. J. W. Fox
For 2 pies take 4 large potatoes. Peel and steam
them till mealy. Mash and beat or run them
through a fruit-masher, and add
2 tablespoons butter,
1/2 cup of rich cream,
cup white sugar,
2 eggs.
Season with cinnamon, spice, and nutmeg. Mix
well and bake in a rich pastry. Cover top with
a meringue of whites of 2 eggs beaten very stiff
and sweetened with 2 tablespoons sugar.
SWEET POTATO PIE (No. 2)
(Famous Virginia Recipe)
Mrs. T. L. Rosser
1 pound boiled sweet potato,
pound sugar,
pound butter,
6 eggs,
1 lemon,
1 glass of brandy.
Rub the potatoes while hot through a colander.
Cream the butter and sugar till very light and add
212
PASTRY
to the potatoes. Beat 6 eggs till foamy and add
to the mixture. Flavor with grated nutmeg, the
juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, and add 1 glass
of brandy.
Line a pie-plate with rich pastry and pour the
ingredients in and bake in a moderate oven. When
done, sprinkle the top with sugar and cover with
fine bits of citron.
TRANSPARENT PIE (No. 1)
Mrs. Joseph Holt
Yolks of 8 eggs,
pound of butter,
1 pound of sugar,
1 wineglass of wine, flavored with lemon.
Mix well and cook in rich pastry.
TRANSPAENT PIE (No. 2)
E.D. P.
4 eggs, beaten separately,
1 cup of butter,
2 cups of sugar,
2 tablespoons of jelly.
Beat sugar and butter, then yolks, and add jelly.
Bake in rich crusts with whites as a meringue.
213
PUDDINGS
BLACK PUDDING
Mrs. James E. Clay
4 yolks of eggs,
1 teacup of sugar,
2 teacups of flour,
1 teacup of butter,
1/2 teacup of sour cream,
1 teacup of blackberry jam,
1/2 teaspoon soda,
Cinnamon, allspice, and cloves to taste.
Bake in pudding-pan or steam. Eat with white
sauce seasoned with whisky.
BLUE GRASS PUDDING
E.D.P.
1 coffeecup of molasses,
1 coffeecup of sour cream,
1 full teaspoon of soda,
1 coffeecup of beef suet,
4 cups of flour,
1 pound of raisins,
1 pound of citron,
1 pound of apples, chopped fine,
217
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1/2 nutmeg,
2 teaspoons of cinnamon, or spices to taste.
Mix molasses, cream, and soda and let it foam.
Add suet, flour, raisins, citron-having dredged
them with flour-apples, and spices.
Grease mould well and let it steam 3 hours.
Leave room for swelling. This quantity makes 2
puddings. Serve with sauce.
CABINET PUDDING
E.D.P.
pound of butter,
pound of sugar,
5 eggs,
1/2 cup of milk,
1/2 pound of sifted flour,
1/2 pound of raisins, seeded and dredged in flour.
Cream the butter and add sugar. Add well-
beaten yolks, then milk, and by degrees the flour,
alternately with the whites. Add the raisins and
pour into well-buttered pudding-mould and boil
21 hours. The mould should have a top. Put
in kettle of boiling water. Keep the water within
1 or 2 inches of the top. The steam helps to cook
the pudding, and the pot should be kept covered.
218
PUDDINGS
CARAMEL PUDDING
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 full pint of rich milk or cream,
Yolks of 2 eggs,
2 tablespoons sugar,
1 tablespoon cornstarch,
Wine, macaroons, or any kind of preserved fruit.
Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the yolks
very light and add the sugar. Stir the cornstarch
with a little cold milk and add to the boiling milk,
and add macaroons or fruit. Cook till thick. Make
a meringue of the 2 whites and 4 tablespoons of
sugar, cover the top and set in oven and brown
slightly.
CHOCOLATE CUSTARD
V.C.G.
1 quart of milk,
4 eggs,
11 bars of chocolate,
Sugar to taste.
Scald the milk and stir the chocolate in after
it is grated. Beat the eggs and sugar together
and stir into the milk, and let it cook till it is thick
219
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
as boiled custard. Flavor with vanilla and pour
into cups.
Serve cold with whipped cream.
CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS
Mrs. Walter E. Addison
Make sponge cake and flavor with lemon,
Make a filling of 1 quart of new milk,
Yolks of 4 eggs.
Boil the milk and add the yolks with 4 table-
spoons sugar. When the milk has boiled, pour it
on the yolks, stirring rapidly all the time. After
well mixed return to the fire. Make a paste of 3
spoons cornstarch and cold milk and stir into the
custard. Cook till well thickened. Flavor with
vanilla.
Put a layer of this custard between the layers
of cake. Cover the top with an icing made of 3
tablespoons chocolate, 6 of sugar, 2 of sweet cream,
and a little butter.
CHOCOLATE PUDDING
E. D. P.
12 tablespoons of grated bread-crumbs,
6 tablespoons of grated vanilla chocolate,
220
PUDDINGS
1 cooking-spoon of butter,
1 quart of sweet milk,
Yolks of 6 eggs.
Boil the milk and sweeten to the taste with gran-
ulated sugar; then add the butter to it while boil-
ing. Cool and add the well-beaten yolks of eggs
and grated chocolate. Bake for 1/2 hour.
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, adding, while
beating, 2 tablespoons of pulverized sugar. Spread
over the pudding and brown nicely. Eat with
cream.
STEAMED
CHOCOLATE PUDDING
Mrs. James E. Clay
Boil 1 quart of morning's milk and pour over 1
pint sifted bread-crumbs,
pound grated chocolate,
1 cup of sugar,
1 cup of flour,
1 cup of butter,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1 cup of raisins cut and seeded,
1 cup of pecans, and
2 tablespoons vanilla.
Steam 2 hours and serve with a rich sauce. Nuts
221
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
can be left out if desired. Pudding can be made
several days before and steamed again when needed.
COCOANUT PUDDING
pound of cocoanut, grated,
1/4 pound of sugar,
31 ounces of butter,
Whites of 6 eggs,
glass of wine and brandy, mixed,
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Stir the
whites gradually. Then sprinkle cocoanut, stir-
ring hard all the time. Serve with sauce.
COTTAGE PUDDING
Mrs. Joseph H. Holt
3 eggs (8 whites, 2 yolks),
1 quart of flour,
1 pint of sugar,
1/2 pint of butter (heaping),
1 cup of new milk,
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar,
1/2 teaspoon of soda.
Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth. Season all
292
PUDDINGS
with fresh lemon or whisky. Bake in buttered gem
moulds and serve with rich sauce for cottage pud-
ding.
DELICIOUS CREAM PUDDING
Mrs. James E. Clay
5 eggs,
1 tablespoon butter,
1 large cup of cream,
1 full pint of sugar,
2 tablespoons flour,
Season lightly with lemon.
Beat the yolks, saving the whites and half the
sugar for the meringue. Add butter and sugar,
then sift in flour, then lemon and cream. Pour in
pudding-pan and bake. Add the meringue and
brown slightly.
DIXIE PUDDING
1 pint bread-crumbs,
1 quart milk,
1 tablespoon sugar,
Yolks of 6 eggs.
Stir the bread-crumbs into the boiling milk, add
the sugar and well-beaten yolks. Flavor with
223
THE BLUE GRAS! S COOK BOOK
vanilla and bake till it begins to thicken. Add 2
cups of sugar to the 6 whites which have been
well beaten. Cover the top of pudding with acid
jelly and spread on the meringue and stick al-
monds here and there on the top. Let it brown
and serve cold with cream or sauce. A little wine
may be used by leaving out the same quantity of
milk.
FIG PUDDING
3 eggs,
1 scant coffeecup of sugar,
1 cup of sweet milk,
1 cup of butter,
2 heaping cups of bread-crumbs,
1 pound of figs, chopped fine,
1 wineglass of sherry,
2 tablespoons of flour, with
2 teaspoons of baking-powder, sifted in the flour.
Steam 3 hours. Serve with sauce.
Put pudding in a cake-mould and set in steamer.
FINE
ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING
V.C.G.
1/2 pound of flour,
pound of bread-crumbs,
224
PUDDINGS
6 ounces of suet, chopped fine,
1 pound of seeded raisins,
pound of currants,
pound of citron, chopped fine,
1/ teaspoon of nutmeg,
teaspoon of cinnamon,
1/2 teaspoon of salt,
1/2 glass of brandy,
1/2 cup of light brown sugar,
3 eggs, well beaten,
1 pint of sweet milk,
Grated rind of 1 orange or lemon.
Steam constantly 4 or 5 hours. Eat with brandy
sauce.
This is a splendid recipe.
F L o A T
V.C.G.
3 eggs,
11 pints of milk,
1 cup of sugar,
Heaping tablespoon of cornstarch.
Flavor with vanilla. Cook till thick. Serve in
glasses.
225
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
INDIAN PUDDING
R. V. J.
Boil 1 cup of meal in 1 pint of milk till it
thickens. Add 1/2 cup of sugar, 1/2 cup of molasses,
1 tablespoon of butter, 1 pint of cold milk, salt to
taste.
Steam and serve with hard sauce.
JEFF DAVIS PUDDING
3 eggs,
21 teacups of esugar,
1
teacup of cream,
1
small cup of butter,
3
tablespoons of flour.
Season with lemon or nutmeg.
KENILWORTH PUDDING
E. D. P.
1 cup of apples, chopped fine,
1 cup of sweet milk,
1 cup of sugar,
1 cup of bread-crumbs,
1 cup of raisins or currants,
226
PUDDINGS
2 eggs, well beaten,
Butter size of an egg,
1 teaspoon of cinnamon.
Bake 1/2 hour. Serve hot with wine sauce.
LADY LEE PUDDING
R.V.J.
1 cup of suet, chopped fine,
1 cup of molasses,
1 cup of milk, with teaspoon of soda,
1 cup of raisins, currants, and citron, mixed,
21 cups of flour.
Boil 3 hours.
NUT PUDDING
6 eggs,
1 1/2 cups of sugar,
3 cups grated almonds or pecans,
Teaspoonful vanilla,
Teaspoonful baking-powder,
1 tablespoon flour.
Beat the yolks and add the sugar. Beat the
whites very stiff and add the nuts. Mix all lightly
and add baking-powder and flour. Bake in layers
227
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
and fill with heavy whipped cream seasoned with
whisky or brandy and pile around the cake.
Sweeten the cream.
ORANGE PUDDING
R. V. J.
4 sweet oranges, sliced,
1 quart of milk,
1 cup of sugar,
2 tablespoons of cornstarch,
Yolks of 3 eggs.
Heat the milk; when nearly boiling add corn-
starch (wet with a little cold water), the sugar,
and eggs well beaten. Boil till thick as custard,
and when cold pour over sliced oranges.
Make a meringue of the whites of 3 eggs and
small teacup of sugar. Spread on pudding and
decorate with sections of orange.
PLUM PUDDING
Mrs. Strauder Goff
1 pound raisins,
1 pound sugar,
228
PUDDINGS
1 pound suet,
1 pound currants,
1/2 pound citron,
1/2 pound bread-crumbs or flour,
6 eggs,
11- nutmeg,
2 teaspoons mixed spices,
1 tumbler of wine and whisky, mixed.
Steam 4 hours and serve with hard sauce.
2
teaspoons of baking-powder is an addition if the
pudding is to be used soon after making. These
puddings may be made in moulds or bags of the
required size and kept in a cool place. Heat
thoroughly when used.
PRUNE PUDDING (No. 1)
Mrs. James E. Clay
Whites of 5 eggs, beaten very stiff.
Add 1/2 pint granulated sugar and beat well.
Stir in 1/2 teaspoon vanilla: lastly, add 1 dozen
prunes, after being cooked and strained. Put in
a baking-dish and set in a pan of warm water and
cook 20 or 30 minutes.
229
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
PRUNE PUDDING (No. 2)
Miss Virginia Croxton
1 pound prunes,
pound sugar,
6 eggs.
Stew, seed, and chop the prunes very fine. Beat
the whites of the eggs; add the sugar, and stir in
the prunes, and bake in a buttered dish for 20
minutes. Make a custard of the yolks of the eggs
and 1 quart of milk. Sweeten and flavor to suit
the taste. Serve the pudding in the baking-dish,
and after serving in small plates, use the custard
as a sauce.
RICE PUDDING (No. 1)
R. V. J.
cup of rice,
1/2 cup of sugar,
Small piece of butter,
1 quart of sweet milk.
Bake slowly 4 hours, and serve with cream.
230
PUDDINGS
RICE PUDDING (No. 2)
Mrs. A. Moore, Jr.
2 tablespoons of rice (raw),
2 quarts of milk,
Sweetened to taste,
1 handful of seedless raisins.
Mix and pour into buttered baking-dish. Grate
nutmeg on top and bake slowly until well done.
When cold the pudding should be of consistency
of baked custard.
Serve with cream.
SCOTCH PUDDING
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
12 small sponge cakes, grated,
5 eggs,
1 teacup of currants,
1 teacup of raisins, cut fine,
1 teacup of sugar,
1 tablespoon of butter,
3 tablespoons of marmalade,
1 teacup of cream.
Cook 15 or 20 minutes. When pudding is nearly
231
Cakes
ALMOND WAFERS
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar,
1/2 saltspoonful of salt.
Stir well together. Beat white of 1 egg just
enough to break it ; add enough flour to sugar to
make it creamy. Flavor with a few drops of bitter
almond essence. Grease the pan lightly and flour.
Drop 1/2 teaspoonful of the paste on the pan, and
with a wet finger spread into a thin round wafer.
Bake in a moderate oven till the edges are lightly
browned; then before removing from the oven door,
lift each wafer and turn round a stick.
ANGEL'S FOOD CAKE
Miss Annie White
Whites of 12 eggs,
10 ounces icing sugar,
243
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
31 ounces flour,
1
teaspoon vanilla,
1
teaspoon cream of tartar.
Sift flour 5 times add cream of tartar and sift
again. Sift sugar 3 times. Beat eggs very light;
add sugar, vanilla, and flour last, stirred in very
lightly. Bake 50 or 60 minutes. When done, do
not take out of mould till cold. The mould should
be greased only on the bottom. When taken out
of the oven it must be turned upside down on some-
thing to let the air to it.
BLACK CAKE (No. 1)
Mrs. John W. Fox
1 pound flour,
1 pound sugar, sifted,
1 pound butter,
12 eggs, beaten separately,
2 nutmegs,
1 small teacup of blackberry jam,
1 cup of dark molasses,
2 cups of brandy or whisky,
2 pounds raisins,
2 pounds currants,
1/2 pound citron,
244
CAKES
1 tablespoon cloves,
2 tablespoons cinnamon,
1 tablespoon mace,
1 tablespoon allspice,
1/4 pound figs, chopped fine,
1/2 cup of nuts,
1 small cup vinegar,
1 teaspoon soda,
pound candied orange.
Put the flour in a bread-pan and brown to a dark
color. Do not burn it. Beat the eggs separately,
then together. Cut the citron in very thin slices
and dredge with flour. Dredge the fruits with
flour and chop the figs and crush the nuts. Beat
the butter and sugar to a cream, and add eggs
alternately with the flour. Add molasses, jam,
brandy, and spices, and then the nuts. Stir the
fruits in lightly, and just before putting in the
pan, add the vinegar, in which the teaspoon soda
is stirred, and pour foaming into the mixture.
Put in a layer of the mixture, then sprinkle the
citron over it, then another layer, and so on, but
do not put any on top. Bake slowly for 4 hours
or longer. When cold, cover with icing flavored
with a little citric acid.
245
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
BLACK CAKE (No. 2)
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 pound of browned flour,
1 pound of sugar,
11 pounds of butter,
13 eggs,
4 pounds of raisins,
2 pounds of currants,
1 pound of citron,
1/2 pint of whisky,
1 nutmeg,
1
teaspoon of cinnamon,
teaspoon of mace,
teaspoon of cloves,
1
pint of acid cherry preserves.
Just before putting in the oven, stir in a small
teacup of vinegar with 1 teaspoon of soda.
Bake 4 or 5 hours in a moderate oven.
BLACKBERRY CAKE
Mrs. Mary E. Goddard
3 eggs,
1
cup of sugar,
cup of butter,
246
CAKES
11 cups of flour,
1 cup of blackberry jam or preserves,
3 tablespoons of sour cream,
1 teaspoon of cinnamon,
1 teaspoon of allspice,
1
teaspoon of soda,
1 nutmeg.
Mix well and bake in layers, and spread white
icing betweeen.
BLUE GRASS PLUM CAKE
R.V.J.
1 pound of butter,
1 pound of granulated sugar,
1
pound of flour,
1
dozen eggs (white and yellows well beaten
separately),
3 pounds of raisins (after seeding),
11 pounds of currants (after cleaning),
11 pounds of citron (cut very thin),
1 nutmeg (grated),
2 tablespoons of powdered cinnamon,
11 pounds of blanched almonds (sliced),
247
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
11 pounds of candied fruit (cut in small pieces),
cherries, peaches, or apricots (do not cut
cherries),
2 lemons (juice),
1 cup of golden syrup,
1 tumbler of mixed brandy, whisky, or rum.
Flour all the fruit with part of 1 pound called
for, and do not add extra flour.
Bake slowly in moderate oven for 5 or 6 hours.
BLUE GRASS WHITE CAKE
Mrs. John C. Berryman
Whites of 12 eggs,
1 tumbler of butter,
21 tumblers of sugar,
31 tumblers of flour, after sifting,
1/6 teaspoon of soda, sifted with flour,
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar.
Bake in mould or bread-pan for 1 hour.
CARAMEL LAYER CAKE
Whites of 4 eggs,
1 cup of butter,
1 cup of sugar,
248
CAKES
1/2 cup of milk,
pound of flour,
1 teaspoon of baking-powder sifted with the flour.
Mix sugar and butter to a cream ; then add milk,
eggs, and flour. Flavor with vanilla, and bake in
layers.
Filling:
2 cups good brown sugar,
1 cup of cream,
1 tablespoon butter.
Put in granite kettle, and when it begins to boil
add 1 tablespoonful of caramel (burnt brown
sugar). Boil till thick. Take from stove and
beat till it thickens. Flavor with vanilla ; then
spread between layers and on top. Cover the top
with English walnuts.
CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE
Whites of 3 eggs,
1 cup of cream or rich milk,
3 cups flour, sifted with 2 teaspoons baking-
powder,
2 large tablespoons butter.
Cream the butter and sugar; then add flour and
cream. Add the eggs last, and flavor with a little
249
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
vanilla. Bake in jelly-pans, and when nearly cool
put a filling between them and on top.
Filling:
2 cups brown sugar,
cake Baker's chocolate.
Cover with milk and add a tablespoon of butter.
Cook till thick. Flavor with vanilla, and spread
on cakes while warm.
CRULLERS
E. D.P.
1 cup of sugar,
1/2 cup of butter,
1 cup of sweet milk,
2 teaspoons of baking-powder,
Nutmeg, cinnamon, or rose water to taste,
3 eggs,
Flour enough to make a stiff dough.
Beat the yolks very light: add sugar, butter;
then milk, with flour for stiff dough. Add season-
ing and the whites well beaten. At the last, add
baking-powder. Roll, cut in shapes, and fry rich
brown in hot lard.
250
CAKES
DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
Miss Bashford
4 ounces of chocolate,
1/2 pint of milk,
1/2 cup of butter,
11 cups of sugar,
4 eggs,
3 cups of flour,
2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder.
Put chocolate in milk and cook in double-boiler
till smooth and thick (about 5 minutes), and stand
aside to cool. Beat the butter to a cream, and add
gradually the sugar and yolks of eggs; then the
cold chocolate mixture, and add the flour, which
has been sifted with the baking-powder. Add the
well-beaten whites of eggs and flavor with vanilla.
Bake in layers and put together with soft icing,
to which add chopped figs or nuts.
DOUGHNUTS
Mrs. H. C. McDowell
1 egg,
1 cup of rich milk,
251
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1 cup of sugar,
3 pints of flour,
3 teaspoons baking-powder,
1 teaspoon melted butter.
Beat the egg well and then add the milk and
sugar, stirring constantly; then the butter and
flour last, with the baking-powder. Roll out on
bread-boards as quickly and as lightly as possible.
Fry in hot lard and sprinkle with sugar.
EXCELLENT DOUGHNUTS
Mrs. W. W. Massie
2 eggs, beaten together,
2 tablespoons of fine lard (not melted),
1 coffeecup of granulated sugar,
pint of milk (skimmed),
Enough flour to make a soft dough,
1 heaping teaspoon of Royal baking-powder,
sifted in flour.
Roll out, cut in shape, and fry in boiling lard.
When cold, dust them in pulverized sugar, to which
a small quantity of pulverized cinnamon is added.
252
CAKES
RAISED DOUGHNUTS
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick
1 pint sweet milk,
12- pint lard,
1 pint sugar,
3 eggs.
Mix soft at night, using the milk, one-half the
sugar and lard, pint yeast. In the morning, add
the rest with the eggs, 1 nutmeg, 2 tablespoons
whisky, and a little soda. Knead well and set to
rise. When light roll out thin, and after cutting
let rise again before frying.
EXCELLENT MARBLE CAKE
White part:
Whites of 7 eggs,
3 teacups sugar,
1 teacup of butter,
4 teacups flour,
1 teacup sour cream,
1/2 teaspoon soda in cream,
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar in flour.
Cream sugar and butter. Add cream then flour
and eggs alternately. Flavor to taste and bake in
layers.
253
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
Dark part:
Yolks of 7 eggs,
2 teacups of brown sugar,
1 teacup of molasses,
1 teacup butter,
5 teacups flour,
1 teacup of sour cream,
1 teaspoon soda in cream,
Spices to taste.
Bake in layers, and stack alternate layers of
dark and white together with white icing, flavored
with lemon.
FRUIT CAKE
R. v. J.
1 pound of butter,
1
pound of sugar,
12 eggs,
1
pound of flour,
1/2 gill of brandy,
1 nutmeg,
1/2 teaspoon of cloves,
2
teaspoons of cinnamon,
11 pounds of raisins,
11 pounds of currants,
1 pound of citron.
254
CAKES
Seed the raisins; slice the citron in thin slices.
Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the eggs
together till thick, then add them by degrees; also
flour, brandy, spices, and the fruits last, and 1/2
teacup of golden syrup. Line the pan, rub with
butter, and bake in a moderate oven about 4 hours.
WHITE FRUIT CAKE
Miss Elise White
1 pound sugar,
1 pound flour,
pound butter,
Whites of 12 eggs,
2 pounds citron,
2 pounds almonds,
1 large cocoanut, grated.
Add 1 tablespoon of soda and 2 of cream of
tartar to flour and sift. Cream butter and sugar,
and then add eggs, which have been beaten sepa-
rately, and add flour alternately with whites. Beat
well; then add lightly one-half of fruit, and put
remainder in layers with the mixture in cake-mould.
Bake slowly and carefully. Have almonds blanched
and cut, and citron mixed with flour, cut in thin
strips: cocoanut grated.
255
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
FRUIT COOKIES
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
Beat well together
3 cups of brown sugar,
1 cup of butter,
1 cup of sour milk,
1 teaspoon of soda,
4 eggs, well beaten,
1 teaspoon of cloves,
2 teaspoons of cinnamon,
1 teaspoon of nutmeg,
2 cups of seeded and chopped raisins.
Flour enough to make a stiff batter that will
drop off a spoon. Bake in a quick oven.
1 teacup of nuts would be an improvement.
FRUIT AND DELICATE
CAKE
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
21 cups of sugar,
41 cups of flour, sifted,
1 cup of butter,
1
cup of sour milk,
1 teaspoon of soda, not heaped,
4 eggs.
256
CAKES
Flavor with lemon; fill 3 jelly tins. Then add
to the remainder
1 cup of chopped raisins,
1 cup of currants,
1/2 citron,
2 tablespoons of molasses,
1 tablespoon of brandy,
1 tablespoon of cinnamon,
1/2 tablespoon of mace or allspice.
After it is baked, put alternate layers of light
and dark with thick icing.
SOFT GINGER BREAD (No. 1)
V. C. G.
1 large coffeecup of sugar,
1 large coffeecup of molasses,
1 large coffeecup of butter,
4 large coffeecups of flour,
1 large coffeecup of sour milk,
4 eggs,
1/2 teacup of ginger,
1/2
teaspoon of ground cloves,
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon,
1 tablespoon of saleratus beaten into the sour milk,
and poured in last.
257
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
SOFT GINGER BREAD (No. 2)
11 cups of brown sugar,
1
cup of butter,
2 eggs,
1
teaspoon of soda, dissolved in a cup of butter-
milk,
2
cups of sifted flour,
1
cup of dark molasses,
2 more cups of flour,
4
tablespoons of ginger.
Mix in the order written.
JUMBLES
Miss Elise White
6 eggs,
1 pound sugar,
pound butter.
Cream butter and sugar, beat the eggs into it
with just enough flour to roll out. Take small
quantity of dough and lay on board, and with a
knife roll in sugar and flour.
258
CAKES
DROP JUMBLES
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1 pound of sugar,
1 pound of butter,
11 pounds of flour,
Juice of fresh lemon to taste,
8 eggs, beaten separately.
Use 2 heaping teaspoons of baking-powder in
the flour, and sift several times. Have your pans
well greased, and dip a teaspoon of batter at a
time a little distance apart.
KENTUCKY CAKE
Mrs. Joseph H. Holt
12 eggs (whites)
1 pound of flour,
1
pound of sugar,
3
4
pound of butter,
1
pound of raisins,
1
heaping teaspoon of baking-powder,
1 wineglass of whisky with a little nutmeg grated
into it.
Wash butter and then cream it very light with
sugar. Beat whites to stiff froth. Add alter-
259
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
nately with the flour, reserving 1 small cup of flour
to mix with baking-powder. Next, put in whisky
and raisins, and lastly, sift in the cup of flour and
baking-powder.
Bake 2 hours in slow oven.
MOUNTAIN CAKE
V. C. G.
teacup of butter,
1/2
teacup of cornstarch,
1/2
teacup of sweet milk,
11 teacups of sugar,
11 teacups of flour,
1
teaspoon of cream of tartar,
1/2
teaspoon of soda,
1
teaspoon of vanilla,
Whites of 5 eggs.
Bake in jelly pans and make 5 layers.
FROSTING F o R SAME
15 tablespoons of pulverized sugar,
1 grated cocoanut,
Whites of 5 leggs.
Beat the whites of eggs nearly stiff before add-
ing the sugar. Spread on each layer, and sprinkle
cocoanut over and on top and sides.
260
CAKES
MRS. HENRY CLAY'S DROP
CAKES
4 eggs,
6 ounces of butter,
8 ounces of sugar,
8 ounces of flour.
OLD VIRGINIA CHRISTMAS
CAKE
12 eggs,
1 pound flour,
1
pound sugar,
1 pound butter,
1 nutmeg,
1
teaspoon each of mace and cinnamon,
3
pounds of raisins,
3
pounds currants,
1/3
2
pound citron,
1
pound each of cream nuts and almonds,
1/2
pint of brandy,
1/2
teaspoon soda in small cup of vinegar. Put in
last.
Bake 3 or 4 hours. Cover with icing made of
eggs and sugar. Flavor with acid.
261
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
PECAN CAKE (No. 1)
E. D. P.
11 pounds of brown sugar,
1
teacup of molasses,
1
pound of flour,
1/3
pound of butter,
6 eggs (beaten separately),
1 pound of pecans after they are shelled,
11 pounds of raisins,
1/2
nutmeg, grated,
1
wineglass of whisky.
Bake about 3 hours.
PECAN CAKE (No. 2)
E. D. P.
1
pound of sugar,
1
pound of flour,
1/6
pound of butter,
2
pounds of pecans, before picking,
11 pounds of raisins,
2 1/6 nutmeg,
1
tumbler of whisky or brandy,
6
eggs, beaten separately,
1
teaspoon of baking-powder.
262
CAKES
POMMES DE TERRE
Mrs. R. H. Hanson
1 pound blanched almonds,
1 pound powdered sugar,
Pound the almonds to a paste.
Beat the whites of 2 eggs very light and mix
in the almonds and sugar till smooth and flavor
with rose and vanilla. Cut the cake in small
pieces, shape like an Irish potato, and roll the
paste around the cake, then roll in powdered sugar
or powdered cinnamon.
POUND CAKE (No. 1)
E. D. P.
1. pound of flour,
1 pound of butter,
1 pound of sugar,
10 eggs.
Cream butter well, then sugar till very light.
Beat eggs till light, velvety, and thick. Add 2
wineglasses of liquor-any kind preferred, then
flour and eggs alternately.
263
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
POUND CAKE (No. 2)
An Old-Time Recipe
12 eggs,
1 pound butter,
1 pound sugar,
1 pound flour.
Cream the butter and add the flour. Beat the
yolks, and add to them the sugar, then add to the
butter and last the frothed whites. Beat well and
flavor with brandy or whisky. Bake in a papered
mould in a moderate oven. The old-fashioned way
was to bake this recipe in teacups and ice them
with white icing, and they were called "Snow-
balls."
ROBERT LEE JELLY CAKE
Use any recipe for sponge layer cake and fill
with the following:
Yolks of 3 eggs,
Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon,
1/4 pound of butter,
1/2 pound of sugar.
Put in a skillet on the stove and stir till cooked
;
then put in the well-beaten 3 whites. As soon as it
264
CAKES
comes to a boil, take off and stir till cold. Put
between layers of cake.
SIMPLE WHITE CUP CAKE
Miss Annie Lyle
5 eggs,
1 cup of butter,
1 cup of milk,
3 cups of flour after sifting,
2 cups of sugar,
2 teaspoons baking-powder.
SPICE CAKE
Miss Annie White
4 teacups flour,
1 good teacup of butter,
3 teacups sugar,
4 eggs,
1 teaspoon soda in 1 cup of sour milk or cream,
1/2 tablespoon each of nutmeg, allspice, mace, cin-
namon, and cloves.
Cream butter and sugar. Break the 4 eggs over
it and beat. Add milk and soda, and put in grad-
ually flour and the spices. Drop with spoon in
pans and ice with white icing and flavor with lemon.
265
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
ALLEGHANY TEA CAKES
1 pound butter,
1
pound sugar,
8 eggs,
11 pounds flour.
Rub butter and sugar together, and add by de-
grees the well-beaten eggs and the flour. Flavor
to taste. Drop with spoon on well-greased tin
pans.
GERMAN TEA CAKES
Mrs. W. W. Massie
Hard-boiled yolks of 10 eggs, rubbed finely
through a sieve,
2 raw eggs, beaten,
1 pound of butter,
1 pound of sugar,
1 tablespoon of whisky,
Flour enough to make a very soft dough.
Sprinkle sugar over each rolling of dough. Cut
in fancy shapes.
266
CAKES
TEA CAKES (No. 1)
Mrs. H. C. McDowell
4 eggs beaten separately,
1 teacup of lard,
2 heaping teacups of brown sugar,
1 scant half cup of sour milk in which dissolve 2
level teaspoons of soda,
1 grated nutmeg,
1 teaspoon lemon extract,
Flour enough to roll out.
Bake in rather hot oven.
TEA CAKES (No. 2)
Miss Virginia Croxton
1 quart flour,
6 ounces butter,
pound sugar,
3 eggs,
2 heaping teaspoons baking-powder.
Flavor with vanilla or cinnamon. Roll out ahout
1/4 inch thick, cut in shapes, and bake in a quick
oven.
267
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
TIP - TOP CAKE
2 eggs,
11 cups sugar,
1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 1 cup of sweet
milk,
21 cups flour,
2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar,
2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Flavor to
taste.
Cream sugar and butter, and then add beaten
eggs, flour, etc., and bake in layers.
VELVET SPONGE CAKE
6 eggs,
2 cups sugar,
1 cup of boiling water,
3 cups flour,
1 tablespoon baking-powder.
Separate the eggs and beat the yolks and add
to them the sugar and beat till very light. Add
the whites, then the hot water, and last, beat the
flour in very lightly. Put together with icing and
flavor with lemon. This recipe makes a nice cake
baked in a big mould or in layers or in muffin
rings. Bake in a moderate oven.
268
CAKES
VENETIAN CAKE
Mrs. Henry C. Buckner
1/2
cupful of butter,
1/2
cupful of powdered sugar,
11 cupfuls of flour,
1
teaspoonful of vanilla,
cupful of almonds,
Yolks of 3 eggs.
Cream butter and sugar very light: add yolks
well-beaten, the almonds cut mix and add vanilla
and stir in lightly the flour. The dough should be
rather soft. Take a small piece at a time, drop
into powdered sugar, roll in the hands in a ball an
inch in diameter. Put a piece of pistachio nut on
the top. Place the balls a little distance apart on
a floured pan, and bake in a moderate oven 10 or
15 minutes. They will look like macaroons.
WASHINGTON CAKE
V.C.G.
1 pound of flour,
1 pound of brown sugar,
1/2 pound of butter,
1 cup of sweet milk,
269
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
1 teaspoon of soda, sifted with flour,
1 pound of raisins, stoned,
1/2 pound of currants,
1/2 pound of citron,
1 cup of English walnuts, chopped fine,
4 eggs, beaten together,
1 teaspoon of cinnamon,
1 teaspoon of cloves,
glass of whisky.
Bake in a 4-quart can, and in a slow oven.
WHITE C A K E
Mrs. Simms
1 large teacup of butter,
2 large teacups of sugar,
3 large teacups of flour,
Whites of 12 eggs,
2 heaping teaspoons of baking-powder,
1 cup of sweet milk.
If large mould is used, put in 2 cups of seeded
raisins. Mix sugar and butter night before. Add
flour and whites alternately-milk last, then 1/2 cup
of flour with the baking-powder in it.
270
CAKES
WHITE SPONGE CAKE (No. 1)
Mrs. J. C. Berryman
Whites of 12 eggs beaten very light. Beat in
pound of sugar, then stir, and put in slowly
pound of flour, a little at a time.
Bake in pan 1/2 hour.
WHITE SPONGE CAKE (No. 2)
R. V.G.
13 eggs, whites only,
4 yolks,
1
pound of sugar,
1/2 pound of flour,
1 lemon.
Beat the yolks and sugar together till very light.
Then add the whites, which have been well beaten,
and beat all together well. Cut in the flour with a
knife, and add juice of lemon.
Bake very slowly an hour and a half in a large-
sized mould.
271
Confections
B ROWN TAFFY
3 pounds sugar,
1/2 pound butter,
1 teaspoon cream of tartar.
Put in pan and dissolve with water. Boil till
it cracks. Flavor with vanilla. Pour on marble
slab and when cool enough to pull, pull till light,
and arrange in long strips and cut any length
desired.
CARAMEL CANDY
1 pound chocolate,
1 pound brown sugar,
1 cup of sweet cream,
1 tablespoon of butter.
Boil till thick and flavor with vanilla. Beat till
creamy. Pour on slab and cut in squares.
339
THE BLUE GRASS COOK BOOK
CHOCOLATE CANDY
3 cups white sugar,
2 tablespoons butter,
1 tablespoon vinegar and 1/4 teaspoon soda,
1- cake of chocolate,
1 cup of boiling water.
Put all in a pan and stir till dissolved, boil
till it cracks, flavor with vanilla, and beat till
creamy. Pour on slab and cut in squares.
CHOCOLATE CARAMELS
To 1 pint of rich milk, add
3 pounds of light-brown sugar,
1/2 pound of butter.
Let the mixture come to a boil, when add 1/2
pound of scraped chocolate. Let it boil till it be-
comes quite thick, stirring it all the time. It is
best to mix the chocolate with a cup of the boiling
milk before adding it to the whole.
When done, flavor with vanilla: pour into but-
tered pans, and cut in squares before it becomes
quite cold.
340
CONFECTIONS
CHOCOLATE DROPS
Miss Kate Alexander
2 pounds of powdered sugar,
Whites of 2 eggs,
1/6
cup of sugar,
1 tablespoonful of vanilla,
1 1/2 pounds of grated pecans.
Beat the whites of 2 eggs. Sift the sugar; then
pour gradually into the eggs, stirring rapidly.
Put in the vanilla; then the grated nuts; then
pour in the cream. Add the rest of the sugar until
it can be worked as dough; then roll out in any
shape, and put on a dish to cool.
Take cake of chocolate (melted) ; then drop
them in, taking out with a toothpick on either side.
Place them on buttered paper; then put a pecan on
top. Set out to cool; then put them on a dish.
COCOANUT CANDY
1 cocoanut, grated,
3 cups brown sugar.
Cover the sugar with water and cook till brittle.
Then pour over the cocoanut, which has been
sprinkled on either slab or dish.
When cold, break in small pieces.
341
CAKES
Apricot Cake
1 cup flour
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking pow-
3/4 cup of milk
der
Pour into small buttered pan about size of bread tin,
lay cooked apricots on top (as many as you wish).
Sprinkle with sugar, little cinnamon and chunks of butter.
Bake in moderate oven, and serve with whipped cream.
Banana Cake
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking pow-
2/3 cup of butter
der
2 egg yolks (beat whites
1 scant teaspoon salt
separately)
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 tablespoons sour milk
1 cup mashed bananas
1 teaspoon soda
1 1/2 cups of flour
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks. Then add
baking soda to sour milk and add to sugar mixture. Then
add salt, vanilla, mashed bananas and flour, and fold in
beaten whites, Follow the order of mixing exactly.
Mrs. E. O. Weidenmiller.
Brown Nut Cake
2 cups sugar
1 cup grated S weet
3/4 cup butter
chocolate
4 eggs
1 cup milk
1 cup unblanched al-
2 cups flour
monds, chopped
2 teaspoons baking
powder
Mrs. E. W. Hart.
8
Cakes
Blintz Torte
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup of flour
4 egg yolks
1 teaspoon baking pow-
5 tablespoons milk
der
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg yolks, milk,
flour, and flavoring. Put this dough on buttered cake
tins, then beat four egg whites till stiff and dry and beat
in one cup powdered sugar till stiff. Put this mixture
over the cake dough, cut almonds over the meringue
and bake in moderate oven twenty or twenty-five min-
utes. Between the layers put a custard made of one egg,
1 cup of milk, two teaspoons sugar and one teaspoon
vanilla, cooked in double boiler until stiff.
Mrs. Ferrone.
Chocolate Cake
Part I.
1/2 cup strong coffee
3/4 cup grated chocolate 1/2 cup brown sugar
Put in sauce pan and cook until thick. Set aside
to cool.
Part II.
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1/2 cup butter
der
1/2 cup strong coffee
1 3/4 cups flour
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter and sugar, add coffee, eggs, and Part
I. Add flour, sifted with soda and baking powder. Bake
in layers, and use Mocha frosting.
Mrs. O. R. Marxsen, Jr.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
9
Chocolate Loaf Cake
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Yolks of four eggs
2 squares of chocolate
1/2 cup milk
melted in five table-
1 3/4 cups flour
spoons of hot water
2 teaspoons b aking
powder
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and beat well.
Add chocolate, then vanilla, flour and baking powder.
Lastly fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and
bake in a loaf pan for one hour.
Mrs. E. O. Weidenmiller.
Chocolate Surprise Cakes
1 1/2 cups flour, sifted
1 1/2 squares chocolate
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon melted
1 teaspoon soda
shortening
1 cup thick cream or
milk
Beat until smooth. Bake for twenty minutes in
muffin tins. Cut out center of each, fill with whipped
cream, replace crust and cover with chocolate icing.
Ruth Salter.
Devil's Food Cake
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup sour milk
2/3 cup butter
2 1/2 cups flour
3 eggs
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup coffee
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup cocoa (dry)
10
Cakes
Christmas Pecan Cake
1 pound sugar
2 teaspoons grated nut-
1/2 pound butter
meb, dissolved in wine
6 eggs
glass of brandy or
1 pound white raisins
cider
1 pound flour
1/2 pound candied cher-
1 teaspoon baking pow-
ries and pineapple
der
may be added to half
1 pound pecan meats
the amount of raisins
Bake slowly for three hours in a tube pan lined with
seven of heavy brown paper. Slice thin.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
Dark Fruit Cake
1 pound granulated
1 tablespoon molasses
sugar
1 cup sour milk
1 pound butter or sub-
1 cup grape juice
stitute
1 teaspoon soda
8 eggs
2 teaspoons each cinna-
2 pounds raisins
mon, cloves and nut-
1/2 pound currants
meg
1/2 pound citron
1 1/4 pounds Swan's
1/2 pound figs
Down cake flour
1 pound shelled nuts
2 teaspoons baking
4 apples
powder
Bake slowly.
Mrs. Lindemann.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
11
Dutch Apple Cake
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon baking pow-
2 1/2 tablespoons sugar
der
1/4 teaspoon salt
Water to make soft
dough
Sift dry ingredients. Work butter in with knife.
Add beaten egg and water. Handle very lightly. Put
in square shallow pan and fill with sliced apples. On
top put the following mixture:
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
2 tablespoons flour
Bake until apples are soft.
Mrs. J. A. Lytle.
French Pastry Cake
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup cocoa, dissolved
1/2 cup butter
in 3/4 cup boiling
3 egg yolks
coffee
1/2 teaspoon baking soda,
dissolved in 1/2 cup
milk or cream
Let cool, add 3 cups flour and 3 beaten egg whites,
flavor if desired.
Filling
3 cups powdered sugar
6 tablespoons butter
6 tablespoons cocoa
6 tablespoons hot coffee
Mrs. O. G. Balfour.
12
Cakes
Graham Cracker Torte
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
24 g r a h a m crackers,
4 eggs, separated
ground fine
1/2 cup shredded cocoa-
2 teaspoons baking
nut or chopped nuts
powder
2 teaspoons vanilla
Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs well
beaten, and milk alternately with cocoanut, baking pow-
der and crackers. Fold in stiffly beaten whites, bake
in two layers and frost with butter cream flavored with
almond.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet
Meringue Cake
1/2 cup butter and 1/2
1 cup flour
cup sugar creamed
1/4 teaspoon salt
together
1 teaspoon baking pow-
3 egg yolks
der
5 tablespoons milk
Meringue
3 egg whites beaten stiff 1/2 cup blanched al-
with pinch of salt
monds or walnuts
1 cup sugar added slow-
ly
Spread batter in layer pan, spread meringue over
batter and bake slowly one half hour.
Custard
1 beaten egg
1 cup sugar mixed with
1 teaspoon vanilla
two scant tablespoons
1 cup milk
corn starch
Cook in double boiler until thick.
When cake is cold cut in half, spread custard be-
tween halves to make layer cake. Serve as dessert with
whipped cream.
Mrs. William G. Clark.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
13
Never Fail Devil's Food Cake
2 tablespoons butter
2 eggs, separated
1 1/2 cups Swansdown
1/4 teaspoon salt
flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup sour milk or
2 squares chocolate
cream
1 teaspoon baking soda
Cream butter and sugar, add yolks then flour and
milk alternately. The soda should be beaten into the
milk before using. Then add chocolate, vanilla, and fold
in whites.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet.
Nun's Cake
1 cup butter
2 1/2 teaspoons b a k i n g
1 1/2 cups pow dered
8
powder
sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Yolks of 5 eggs
3 teaspoons c a r a W a y
.
Whites of 2 eggs
seed
3/4 cup milk
2 teaspoons rose water
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
3 cups flour
extract
Beat butter until creamy, add sugar and egg yolks,
stir in unbeaten egg whites and beat for one minute. Add
flour, milk and flavorings. Bake in a moderate oven.
Pineapple Filling for Sponge or Ice Box Cake
1 can (small) grated
2 teaspoons water
pineapple
2/3 cup corn starch
1 small cup sugar
Cook until thick and cool. Add half pint whipped
cream.
Nell Graham.
14
Cakes
Pound Cake
Cream 1 cup butter; add gradually 1 1/2 cups sugar.
Cream well. Break into this 5 eggs, one at a time, beat-
ing well after each egg. Then add 2 cups well sifted
flour. Flavoring. May add citron. For flavoring, a
combination of almond, lemon and vanilla extracts is
delicious.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
Russian Torte
(Angel Food Cake)
1 cup egg whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup cake flour
4 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon vanilla or al-
1 teaspoon cream of tar-
mond extract
tar
Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour over the
beaten egg whites. Add flavoring and beat until cold.
Mix and sift flour, cream of tartar and salt several times
and fold gradually into egg mixture. Bake fifty minutes
in moderate oven keeping covered with heavy brown
paper for the first fifteen minutes.
Filling
Soak two tablespoons granulated gelatine in one
fourth cup of water for five minutes. Let stand over
boiling water to dissolve. Add one cup powdered sugar,
two tablespoons strong coffee and one eighth teaspoon
salt. Let this mixture stand. Then take eight egg yolks,
beaten well, and add one pint of heavy cream and a tea-
spoon of vanilla. Combine the two mixtures and beat
thoroughly.
Cut the angel food cake into two unequal layers and
spread the mixture between the layers and over the top
and sides. Sprinkle with chopped roasted, brown al-
monds. A delicious dessert.
Mrs. Thomas Roy.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
15
Simple Frosting
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons cold
1 egg white
water
Put ingredients into the upper half of a double boiler
when the water in the lower half has come to a boil. Beat
the three together while cooking, with a Dover beater,
for seven minutes. Add a teaspoon of vanilla and a pinch
of salt and spread on cake. To vary frosting, add a tea-
spoon of cocoa before cooking or chopped nuts and cher-
ries after cooking.
Helen Hawk Carlisle.
Sour Cream Cake
2 eggs beaten and add-
1 3/4 cups flour
ed to a cup of sour 1 teaspoon baking pow-
cream
der
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
Beat all together and add 1 cup raisins and nutmeats.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Then
beat together and add 1 cup raisins and nutmeats.
Mrs. E. H. Payne.
Spice Cake
1 cup butter
1 teaspoon cloves
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup sour milk
2 cups flour
3 eggs
1 small teaspoon soda
2 cups currants, raisins
dissolved in the sour
or blueberries
milk
3 teaspoons cinnamon
Mrs. Burton.
16
Cakes
Sponge Cake
3 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons baking
1 cup sugar
powder
1/2 cup water
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat whites of eggs in mixing bowl, then add one
yolk at a time and continue beating. Add sugar grad-
ually, then half of the water and half the flour, then re-
maining water and flour and flavoring. Use only a Dover
beater in mixing the cake. Bake in moderate oven. Very
good baked in two layers.
Mrs. E. Larson.
Sunshine Layer Cake
5 egg yolks
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup sweet milk
1/2 teaspoon soda and 1
1 1/3 cups flour
teaspoon cream of
1 teaspoon vanilla
tartar added to flour
White Layer
5 egg whites beaten stiff
1/2 cup pastry flour
with pinch of salt
1 teaspoon cream of tar-
Scant 3/4 cup sugar
tar
Sift flour and cream of tartar several times.
Filling
1 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon corn starch
Boil slowly until thick. Add nuts if desired.
Mrs. E. W. Hart.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
17
Surprise Crullers
Beat two eggs lightly and add half teaspoon salt,
half cup sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Mix
together two cups sifted flour and one and a half tea-
spoons baking powder. Combine the two mixtures and
add a fourth cup of milk. Roll out in two sheets and
cut in rounds, an inch and a half in diameter. In the
centers of half the rounds place a quarter of a teaspoon
of orange marmalade, two seeded raisins and a pinch
of ground cinnamon. Cover with the other round, press
the edges together firmly and fry in deep hot fat. Drain
on brown paper and roll in powdered sugar.
Mrs. Lydia B. Dorsey.
Upside Down Cake
In bottom of round cake pan spread 1 1/2 cups brown
sugar and 2 tablespoons butter. Place 5 or 6 slices of
pineapple on top and pour over them the following batter,
and bake slowly one hour.
Batter
Beat 1 1/2 cups sugar and three egg yolks for fifteen
minutes. Add alternately 1/2 cup of water or pineapple
juice and 1 1/2 cups of flour until used. Add 1 1/2 teaspoons
baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla and a pinch of salt.
Add beaten egg whites. Invert cake and put Maraschino
cherries in centers of pineapple. Serve with whipped
cream.
Mary Pearl Williams.
18
Cakes
White Fruit Cake
1/2 cup butter
3/4 cup grated cocoanut
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup finely cut citron
1 3/4 cups cake flour
1/2 cup Sultana raisins
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1/2 teaspoon each al-
der
mond and vanilla ex-
1/4 teaspoon salt
tract
1/2 cup chopped almonds
5 egg whites
Mrs. Lindemann.
CANDIES
Butter Scotch
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup syrup
1/2 teaspoon salt
Butter, size of an egg
Boil without stirring until, when tried in cold water,
the mixture becomes brittle.
Mrs. Burton.
Chocolate Fudge
2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons cocoa
1/2 cup cream
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup milk
3 tablespoons butter
1 heaping tablespoon
1 teaspoon vanilla
corn starch
Boil sugar, cream, and milk. Mix cocoa, corn starch,
and salt, and add to the boiling mixture. Boil until a
soft ball is formed in water. Add butter and boil until
melted. Pour a little of the mixture into a soup plate,
a little into a second plate, a little into a third plate. Con-
tinue adding a little to each until it is all poured. Beat
what is left sticking to the pan. If it turns hard while
still hot, add a few drops of cream to the fudge mixture
before beating, but do this only after the contents of the
three plates are fully cooled. Beat the fudge until it can
be dropped in small pieces on waxed paper. The vanilla
must be added before beating.
Mrs. Lydia B. Dorsey.
22
Candies
Cocoanut Taffy
1 small can Red Label
2 cups shredded cocoa-
Karo
nut
3 cups sugar
1 small can Carnation
1 large tablespoon but-
Milk
ter
Put on stove and cook until it forms a firm ball in
cold water. Stir to keep from burning. Pour out thin
in buttered pans.
Mrs. David E. Walker.
Date Nut Roll
3 cups sugar
1 cup milk
Boil together, and add a heaping tablespoon of but-
ter, 1 box of dates cut fine and cook until thick. Beat
until cold and add 1/2 cup of nuts and flavoring. Roll
in damp towel, and when chilled, slice.
Mary Pearl Williams.
COOKIES
Almond Cookies (ice-box)
1 cup brown sugar
2 level teaspoons soda
1 cup white sugar
4 1/2 cups of flour
3 eggs
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 pound chopped al-
1 cup melted butter
monds (blanched)
1 cup melted lard
Form in two rolls and allow to stand over night in
a cool place. Cut in slices and bake. This is a large
recipe but good.
Mrs. E. P. Johnson.
Boston Cookies
1 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3 eggs
1 cup chopped English
1 teaspoon soda
walnuts
1 1/2 tablespoons
hot
1/2 cup currants
water
1/2 cup raisins (seeded
3 1/4 cups flour
and chopped)
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and eggs well
beaten. Add soda, dissolved in hot water and half the
flour mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon, then add
nut meats, fruit, and remaining flour. Drop by spoon-
fuls one inch apart on a buttered sheet, and bake in a
moderate oven.
Mrs. Bohn.
Brownies
3/4 cup white sugar
2 squares melted choco-
1/2 cup butter
late
2 eggs
1 cup walnuts
1/2 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Bake in a thin layer on a cooky sheet 10 minutes.
When cool, cut in squares.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
26
Candies
Filled Cookies
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons Cream of
1/2 cup butter
Tartar
1/2 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon soda
Filling
3 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup cold water
1 cup raisins, figs or dates, chopped fine, and boiled
with the sugar, water and flour to make a smooth paste.
Stir constantly to prevent burning.
Spread the paste between pairs of the cookies.
Mrs. T. J. Holmes.
Christmas Nut Ring Cookies
1 pound sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 scant cup butter
1 teaspoon soda (In a
3 eggs
little hot water.)
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs beaten separately.
Flour to stiffen. Roll thin, sprinkle with nuts.
Ruth Salter.
Date Cookies
2/3 cup melted butter
1 teaspoon soda in two
1 cup white sugar
tablespoons of hot
2 eggs
water
1 package of chopped
1/2 cup shelled nuts
dates
2 cups flour
Drop on greased cookie sheet.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
27
Ginger Cookies
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon each cinna-
1/2 cup shortening,
mon and ginger
creamed
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup dark molasses
Flour enough for rather
1/2 cup water
stiff dough
1 teaspoon soda
Mrs. Philip Kinsley.
Ice Box Cookies
3/4 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
3/4 cup brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon soda dis-
1 egg
solved in warm water
Juice of half a lemon
3/4 cup nut meats,
3 cups flour
chopped
1 teaspoon cinnamon
Make long, round roll. Place in ice box over night.
Slice thin and bake.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
Quick Oatmeal Drop Cookies
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon
powdered
1 cup Crisco
ginger
3 cups rolled oats
1 cup stoned dates, cut
2 eggs
fine, or raisins and
1/2 cup sour milk
nuts
1 teaspoon powdered
1 teaspoon baking soda
cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups flour
Cream Crisco and sugar together thoroughly, add
eggs, well beaten, rolled oats, dates, salt, spices, soda
dissolved in milk, and flour. Mix and drop from spoon
on buttered tin. Bake in moderate oven till brown. Suf-
ficient for 50 cookies.
Mrs. Cramer.
28
Cookies
Sugar Cookies I
1/2 cup butter
1/4 cup milk (sweet)
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons b aking
2 eggs
powder
1 teaspoon ginger
3 cups flour, or enough
1 teaspoon nutmeg
to make a soft dough
Bake in quick oven.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Sugar Cookies II
1 cup butter
3 teaspoons vanilla ex-
1 cup sugar
tract
2 eggs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
3 cups flour
der
Beat butter and sugar until light, add eggs and beat
again, add vanilla. Sift flour and baking powder and add.
Roll out thin, sprinkle with sugar, and press a little with
the rolling pin. Cut out with cookie cutter and bake.
Mrs. H. M. Bryant.
Waffle Cookies
2 cups sugar
3 cups flour
1 cup butter
2 teaspoons b aking
4 eggs, beaten
powder
1 cup milk
1 pinch of salt
Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs and milk,
then add flour, baking powder and salt sifted together,
and nutmeg to flavor. Preheat waffle iron ten minutes,
then proceed to bake. It will take about two minutes
for each baking. This recipe makes 48 cookies which
will keep indefinitely.
Mrs. G. C. Wilson.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
29
Cookies or Swedish Crisps
Cream together 1 cup of butter and 1 cup of brown
sugar and add
1 beaten egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups bread crumbs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
(hard and dry)
der
1 1/2 cups of flour
1/2 cup chopped nuts
Roll very thin, cut in shapes and bake in quick oven.
Fudge Squares
3 tablespoons of short-
2/3 cup of milk
ening
2 cups of flour
1 1/2 cups granulated
1 1/2 teaspoons b a king
sugar
powder
2 eggs
1 package of dates cut
2 oz. bitter chocolate
fine
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup walnuts cut fine
Melt shortening, add sugar and unbeaten egg,
add chocolate which has been melted, vanilla and
milk. Add flour which has been sifted with the baking
powder. Add dates and nut meats which have been mix-
ed in some of the flour to prevent falling to the bottom
of pan. Spread thinly in greased tins, bake in a slow
oven from 20 to 35 minutes.
Cut into squares while still warm and before remov-
ing from pan. Makes two layers and may be served with
whipped cream.
Mrs. Erma Volkman,
DESSERTS
Apple Dumplings
6 tart apples, pared and
2 cups flour
cored
Pinch of salt
1 teaspoon baking pow-
2 heaping tablespoons
der
lard or butter
Rub together as though for a pie crust, and add
about 1/2 cup sweet milk. Roll thin and wrap each apple
in part of the dough. Place in shallow pan and pour the
following sauce over them.
Sauce
3 cups light brown
1 tablespoon butter
sugar
3 cups boiling water
1 tablespoon flour
Nutmeg to taste
When dumplings begin to brown, baste with the
sauce as you would a roast.
Mrs. O. R. Marxsen, Jr.
Baked Custard
2 eggs
2 cups milk
1/2 cup sugar (heaping)
Pinch of salt
Nutmeg to taste
Bake twenty minutes.
Mrs. Dunning.
Banana Fluff
Rub two or three ripe bananas through a ricer and
mix with one cup of stiffly whipped cream. Sweeten
to taste, pile in sherbet glasses and sprinkle a little
grated chocolate or cocoa on top. Serve very cold.
Sheila White.
34
Desserts
Candied Apples
Make a syrup of 1 cup water and 1/2 cup sugar.
Cook in it four or five peeled apples until tender.
Serve with whipped cream and nuts.
Mrs. Vincent M. Reed.
Chocolate Ice Box Cake
30 lady fingers
3 tablespoons water
4 eggs separated
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 pound sweet choco-
Small piece butter
late
Line a spring pan with lady fingers, side and bottom.
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler, add sugar and
water with yolks beaten well, cook slowly until thick
and smooth, stirring constantly, beat the whites stiff,
and when chocolate is cold add to the whites. Pour it
on the lady fingers and place more lady fingers on the
top of the filling and set in ice box for 24 hours. When
ready to serve add the whipping cream, over top place
nuts or cherries.
Mrs. E. H. Payne.
Cottage Pudding
1 cup milk
3 tablespoons
melted
2 eggs
butter owt dua
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons o baking
2 cups flour
powder oliq , 03
Bake half an hour.
$0000 TO
Mrs. Dunning.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
35
Chocolate Steam Pudding
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups sifted flour
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg beaten separately
2 t easpoons baking
2 squares chocolate
powder
3/4 cup milk
Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolk, then milk
and dry ingredients alternately, then melted chocolate
and lastly fold in beaten egg white. Steam three-quar-
ters of an hour.
Sauce
1 tablespoon butter
1 white of egg beaten
1 cup powdered sugar
stiff
1 egg yolk
1 bottle whipped cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix in order given.
Mrs. J. A. Lytle.
Creamy Rice Pudding
1/3 cup rice
1/2 cup raisins (seed-
4 cups milk (hot)
less)
1/4 cup sugar
Boil rice 5 minutes, then blanch. Add milk to
blanched rice and cook in double boiler for one hour.
Add sugar and raisins and bake one hour or less time
in moderate oven. Stir with long fork every 15 minutes.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
36
Desserts
Date and Nut Divinity Pudding
1 cup dates (ground)
3 egg whites
1 cup nuts (ground)
3 egg yolks
1 cup bread crumbs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup sugar
Mix all except the whites which should be folded in
last, beaten firmly. Bake for thirty minutes and serve
with whipped cream.
Mary Lee Robertson.
Date and Walnut Fingers
2 tablespoons cold
1 cup finely chopped
water
walnuts
1 cup sugar
1 package chopped
3 eggs-separated
dates
1 cup flour
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 teaspoons baking
1/4 teaspoon salt
powder
Cream sugar with yolks, add water, flour, dates, nuts,
vanilla, and salt. Then fold in the stiffly beaten whites.
Bake in moderate oven until golden brown. When cold
cut in pieces three by one inch and roll in powdered
sugar. May be used for luncheon dessert, cut in squares
and served with whipped cream.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet.
Date Pudding
1 cup dates
1 level teaspoon baking
1 cup chopped nuts
powder
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon flour
3 eggs
Bake slowly forty-five minutes. Serve with whipped
cream.
Mrs. Dunning.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
37
Date Suet Pudding
2 cups bread crumbs
2 teaspoons baking
1 cup flour
powder, moistened in
1/2 cup nuts chopped
a little water.
fine
2 eggs beaten in a little
1 cup sugar
milk.
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 box dates
Put mixture in a buttered pan and steam three hours.
Sauce
2/3 cup sugar
Heaping teaspoon flour
Butter size of egg
Mix together and add one cup boiling water. When
cool add one beaten egg and vanilla.
Mrs. Burton.
Fresh Cocoanut Pudding
1 pint whipped cream
Knox's gelatine dis-
Scant half package
solved in water.
Beat cream until stiff, add melted gelatine and grated
half of fresh cocoanut or a can of Baker's cocoanut. Put
in mould and set on ice for two or three hours. When
ready to serve, cover the top and sides with other half
of cocoanut. Serve with maple syrup or fresh strawberry
sauce.
Mrs. O. G. Balfour.
Graham Patties
3/4 packa g crumbed
1/2 cup butter
graham crackers
1 teaspoon water
Mix into a paste and line muffin tins with it by pat-
ting out a ball of the paste until it covers the inside of the
pan. Fill with rich sweetened apple sauce. Bake fifteen
minutes. Cool completely before removing from pans.
Top with whipped cream.
Mrs. Chester Davis.
38
Desserts
Graham Cracker Pudding
Cream together 1/4 cup sugar, and two tablespoons
butter. Add 1 egg well beaten, 1/2 cup milk, 1/2 cup nut
meats cut fine, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon baking
powder, 1 heaping cup graham cracker crumbs. Bake
in buttered dish in moderate oven. Serve with
Golden Sauce
Put in double boiler :
1/3 cup butter
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup milk
When dissolved, beat in the yolks of two eggs and
add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat with Dover beater to
keep from lumping. Serve hot.
Mrs. O. R. Marxsen, Jr.
Ice Box Cake
2 bars German sweet
2 tablespoons b oiling
chocolate
water
2 tablespoons powdered
4 eggs
sugar
18 lady fingers
Dissolve chocolate in water in double boiler. Add
sugar, beat until cold, add yolks one at a time, then the
beaten whites. Line dish with paraffin paper and put
in a layer of split lady fingers, then a layer of the choco-
late mixture and alternate lady fingers and chocolate
with a top layer of lady fingers. Let stand in refrigerator
for 24 hours and serve with whipped cream.
Mrs. Albert Hofstetter, Jr.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
39
Ice Box Cake
1 pound sweet butter
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1 pound 4x sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla
6 eggs
2 dozen lady fingers
1/2 pound blanched al-
monds
Cream butter and sugar, put one egg in at a time,
beat well add flavoring and then almonds.
Place lady fingers upright around side of the pan and
line bottom of it, put in the mixture and place in ice-box
over night. When ready to serve add two bottles of
whipped cream on top.
Mrs. H. R. Hotchkiss.
Ice Box Dessert
12 macaroons
1/2 pint whipping cream
1 cup pecans
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup dry cocoanut
Crumble the macaroons, whip the cream and com-
bine all the ingredients mixed well. Pat mixture firmly
into a buttered glass pie dish and let stand in ice box
twelve hours or more. Serve in squares topped with
whipped cream and cherries.
Mrs. Clyce.
Lemon Pudding
1 cup of sugar
Juice and rind of one
Heaping tablespoon
lemon
flour
Yolk of 2 eggs
Pinch salt
One cup milk
Butter size of walnut
2 whites beaten stiff
Butter pan, set in pan of water, bake 1/2 hour in mod-
erate oven.
Very good and will serve about six.
Mrs. E. P. Johnson.
40
Desserts
Lemon Ice Box Cake
2 1/2 dozen lady fingers
1/2 pound butter
4 eggs, beaten separate-
1 lemon
ly
1 large cup sugar
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, grated
rind and juice of lemon and beaten egg whites. Line
tin with lady fingers, add mixture. Dot with bits of pine-
apple and Maraschino cherries, and alternate mixture
cherries and pineapple with lady fingers until all are used.
Let stand on ice 24 hours and serve with whipped cream.
Mrs. A. L. Kemnitz.
Mrs. J. M. Hammer.
Meringue Dessert
3 egg whites, beaten
stiff
Add slowly while beating one cup granulated sugar,
one teaspoon vinegar and one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in
buttered muffin tins for one hour. Oven temperature
300 degrees. Before serving, remove tops carefully, fill
with fresh or canned fruit mixed with whipped cream
and replace tops.
Mrs. W. H. Blacker.
Pineapple Fluff
1 small flat can of pine-
1/2 pint of whipping
apple, diced
cream
15 marshmallows
Cut marshmallows in small pieces and soak in pine-
apple juice while whipping the cream. Drain marsh-
mallows and mix cream, pineapple, and marshmallows
together. Put in mould and place on ice until cold. A
quick delicious dessert.
B. C. Le Vally.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
41
Pineapple Ice Cream
1 quart milk
1 1/2 level tablespoons
2 eggs
corn starch
1 cup sugar
Heat milk in double boiler, then add sugar and corn
starch mixed smooth in a little milk. Let it boil for one
or two minutes or until it begins to thicken. Remove
from stove and cool. Then stir in the eggs, two cups of
crushed pineapple and half pint of cream. Freeze.
Makes 2 quarts.
Mrs. R. A. Del Prato.
Orange Charlotte
1 1/2 tablespoons heaping
1 cup sugar.
of gelatine
3 tablespoons 1 e m o n
Dissolve in 1/3 cup cold
juice
water and 1/3 cup hot
1 cup orange juice
water.
Let above cool, then beat to a froth and fold in three
egg whites, and two cups whipped cream. Turn into
mould and chill.
Caroline Hesselbaum.
Raspberry Flummery
Boil one cup raspberries in a pint of water, one cup
of sugar and stir in three tablespoons of corn starch
mixed with water. Cook in double boiler until thick and
pour into mold. When cold serve with cream and sugar.
42
Desserts
Snow Pudding
Dissolve half a box of gelatine in one pint of boiling
water. When cool, add the whites of three eggs and beat
to a stiff froth. Add two cups of sugar, the juice of two
lemons and beat again until stiff. Serve with a custard
made of the yolks of three eggs and one whole egg, three
pints of milk and six tablespoonsful of sugar.
Mrs. Gust J. Anderson.
Sponge Pudding
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup flour
Mix with enough milk to make a paste. Add one
pint scalded milk and boil until thick. Add 1/3 cup but-
ter. Beat yolks and whites of five eggs separately. Add
cooked mixture to yolks. Fold in whites and bake in
unbuttered pudding pan about twenty minutes. Set pan
in hot water while baking.
Mrs. W. H. Langewisch.
French, Apple Pudding
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup flour
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon baking
6 or 7 tablespoons milk
powder
Peel and slice apples or fresh peaches very thin, put
in pan and sweeten, add pinch of salt and a little cinna-
mon. Cover with above batter and bake about 1/2 hour.
Serve with cream.
48
Luncheon Dishes
Cheese and Olive Sandwich
1/2 cup stuffed chopped
1 package Philadelphia
olives
cream cheese
Mix thoroughly and spread on thin slices of buttered
bread.
Mrs. R. A. Del Prato.
Cheese Souffle
1/2 pound cheese cut in-
Yolks of 3 eggs
to small pieces
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup bread crumbs
1 cup scalded milk
Mix all together and fold in beaten whites, then
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven.
Sheila White.
Corn and Cheese Souffle
1 cup medium white 1/2 cup grated cheese
sauce
3 eggs
1/2 cup corn
Salt to taste
Add corn, cheese, and slightly beaten egg yolks to
hot white sauce. Cool and fold in stiffly beaten whites,
turn into buttered baking dish and bake for thirty min-
utes.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
MEAT DISHES
Chicken a La King
1 young chicken (about
3 Spanish sweet pep-
3 1/2 pounds)
pers
1/2 pound fresh mush-
1 pint cream
rooms (or one large
1/4 pound butter
can)
4 tablespoons flour
3 green peppers, cut up
1/2 spoon salt
Pinch of pepper
Boil chicken and dice. Scald peppers in chicken
broth. Saute mushrooms, scald cream. Rub flour and
butter together and thicken the cream to which a little
chicken broth has been added. Add seasoning, mush-
rooms, peppers and chicken to sauce and cook slowly for
ten minutes in double boiler. Rub yolks of two hard
boiled eggs with a little cream and add to the mixture
before serving.
Mrs. F. H. Rohles.
Chicken and Macaroni Loaf
1 1/2 c u P S macaroni-
2/3 cup blanched and
broken up small
chopped almonds
1 1/2 cups cheese
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped chicken
1/8 teaspoon grated nut-
2 eggs
meg
1/2 cup cream
Pinch of mustard
Cook macaroni until tender, combine with chicken,
almonds and grated cheese: Mix thoroughly, add eggs
well beaten, seasonings and cream. Mix thoroughly, but
lightly and turn into a well buttered mold. Cover and
steam for two hours. Remove and invert mold over dish
in which loaf is to be served. Let stand a few minutes
before lifting mold. Serve with tomato sauce poured
around loaf.
60
Meat Dishes
Meat Loaf
2 pounds round steak
2 eggs
1 pound lean pork,
1 cup cracker crumbs
ground fine
Scant teaspoon salt
1 cup cooked tomatoes
Form into loaf and press hard into paper lined pan,
with several strips of bacon on top. Bake slowly for half
an hour and rapidly for fifteen minutes. Make gravy
from liquid which exudes.
Mrs. A. L. Kemnitz.
Oriental Stew
3 pounds veal
1 cup nut meats
1/2 can tomatoes
Cut meat in small pieces and brown in butter in
which a sliced onion has been browned. Strain the to-
matoes and add to the meat. Cook one and a half hours.
Boil one cup of rice, heat the nuts in butter, sprinkle over
the rice and serve with the meat mixture.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
Pork Chops With Apples
6 pork chops
1/2 cup raisins
3 tablespoons flour
3 tart apples
1/4 teaspoon sage
1 tablespoon vinegar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup brown sugar
2 cups hot water
Sprinkle chops with sage and salt and brown in pan.
Remove to shallow baking dish. On each chop place
half an apple, pared, cored and filled with brown sugar.
Into the fat in the pan put flour and salt; brown, adding
water to make gravy. Bring to boil. Add vinegar and
raisins. Pour over chops and bake until apples are ten-
der.
Mrs. E. H. Holtz.
62
Meat Dishes
Steamed Salmon Loaf
1 large can salmon
1 tablespoon
1 e m o n
2 cups cracker or bread
juice or vinegar
crumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 beaten eggs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
2 tablespoons
melted
der
butter
Mix and form in loaf, wrap in cloth and steam three-
quarters of an hour.
Sauce
1/4 cup canned tomato 2 t a b 1 e S p o O n S corn
soup
starch
1 beaten egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
Dash of red pepper
Add grated yellow cheese and pour over salmon loaf.
Garnish with lemon and parsley.
Mrs. Vincent M. Reed.
Salmon Turbot
1 tall can salmon
2 eggs
2 tablespoons melted
1 pint sweet milk
butter
Bread crumbs
1 tablespoon flour
Drain juice from salmon, take out bones and skin,
and break salmon in small pieces.
Make sauce by melting butter and adding flour and
milk. When hot, but not boiling, add eggs well beaten.
Put a layer of salmon in buttered baking dish, then
a layer of sauce and so on until salmon and sauce are
used up. Sprinkle top with crumbs and bake in moderate
oven about a half hour.
Lauraette Cornett.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
63
Shepherd's Pie
1 1/2 pounds of lamb
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 cup sliced onions
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup cut carrots
4 potatoes
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons parsley
Wipe meat, put on to boil with 2 quarts of water and
cook slowly one hour. Add seasonings and vegetables
except potatoes. Cook until tender, then remove 4 cups
of the juice (can be kept for soup stock). To the re-
mainder in the kettle, add flour thickening and boil five
minutes. Boil and mash potatoes, put around the edge
of an agate platter. Put the meat in the center, dust
with paprika, brown in moderate oven and sprinkle with
parsley.
Mrs. H. Cox.
Escalloped Shrimps
1 cup bread crumbs
1/8 teaspoon paprika
1 cup cooked tomatoes
2 cups cooked or canned
or canned tomatoes
shrimps
1 tablespoon minced
1 chopped green pepper
parsley
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
Sprinkle bottom of greased casserole with 1/2 cup
bread crumbs. Cover bottom with tomatoes, adding
parsley, salt and paprika. Put in a layer of shrimps,
then a layer of green pepper which has been sauted in
butter. Repeat layers of tomatoes, seasoning, shrimps
and green peppers until all are used. Cover top with re-
maining 1/2 cup bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter
and sprinkle with paprika. Coak in moderate oven
about one half hour.
Sheila White.
64
Meat Dishes
Italian Spaghetti
1/2 pound chopped pork
1 onion, chopped
1/2 pound chopped beef
1/4 teaspoon ground
1/2 pound chopped veal
cloves
1 can tomatoes
1 bay leaf
1 green pepper, chopped
1 cup mushrooms
1 large clove of garlic,
2 tablespoons olive oil
chopped
1 teaspoon butter
Cook spaghetti separately until soft. Pour paste
over it.
Mrs. Burton.
Italian Spaghetti
1 can Italian tomato
1/8 teaspoon c a y e n n e
paste
pepper
1/4 pound bacon, cut fine
1 can mushrooms
2 large onions, cut fine
2 teaspoons c hopped
1 green pepper, cut fine
parsley
1 small can of pimientos
1 cup grated Parmesan
1/2 teaspoon paprika
cheese
1 teaspoon salt
1 package spaghetti
Boil spaghetti until soft. Fry bacon, add chopped
onions and fry gently until light brown. Add green
pepper, chopped, and continue frying. Add chopped
pimiento, parsley, mushrooms and seasoning. Add to-
mato paste and cook slowly for five minutes, stirring
to prevent sticking. Put layer of spaghetti in a baking
dish, cover with cheese and a layer of sauce, then alter-
nate layers of cheese and sauce with layers of spaghetti
until the dish is full, having a layer of sauce and cheese
on top. Bake slowly for 1 hour.
1/2 pound of chopped round steak may be added if
desired.
Mrs. John Jones.
MUFFINS AND HOT BREADS
Ice Box Biscuits
1 medium sized potato,
2 cups flour
boiled and mashed
Salt
3/4 cup lard. Add to
1/2 cup sugar
mashed potato and 1
cup potato water
While potato is boiling, dissolve 1 yeast cake in 1/2
cup warm milk, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 eggs beaten, and let
rise 20 minutes. Add 3 cups of flour, and the first mix-
ture.
Place in ice box and let rise till ready to use. Then
knead lightly and pinch off small bits. Roll in buttered
hands and place 3 of these in greased muffin tins. Let
rise from 2 1/2 to 3 hours in warm room. Bake in hot oven
twelve or fifteen minutes.
The dough may be kept in ice box several days,
kneading down when light and rolling out only enough
for immediate use.
Mrs. W. E. Jameson.
Bran Muffins
1 cup of sugar
1 cup of milk in which
1 tablespoon each of
1 teaspoon of baking
butter and Crisco
powder has been add-
1 pinch of salt
ed (sweet or sour milk
1 egg
may be used)
1 1/2 cups of flour
1/2 cup of bran and a
few raisins
Method. Mix in order given, will make 16 buns.
Bake in moderate oven for 1/2 hour.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
79
Bunskets
1 tablespoon lard
1 egg well beaten
1/3 cup of sugar
4 cups of flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 yeast cake.
1 cup boiling water
Knead in solid ball and raise 4 hours. Punch down
and raise 2 hours more. Put in ice-box over night.
Make into very tiny balls and put in greased pan
and allow to rise 4 hours and bake in moderate oven.
These are delicious.
Mrs. E. P. Johnson.
Coffee Cake
(Old recipe-1864)
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup molasses
1 teaspoon soda
4 cups flour
2 teaspoons cream of
1 cup strong coffee
tartar
1 egg
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 pound raisins
Mrs. D. McGrath.
Crumb Coffee Cake
3 cups flour
Pinch of salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup shortening
Crumb together, and save 3/4 cup of the mixture for
the top of the cake. Add one egg, one teaspoon cinna-
mon, 1/2 teaspoon cloves, and 1 teaspoon soda in a cup
of sour milk. Before putting in oven sprinkle top with
the 3/4 cup crumbs. Bake in moderate oven. Will make
two cakes 8 by 10 inches. Good hot or cold.
Mrs. E. Larson.
80
Muffins and Hot Breads
Ginger Bread
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
2 tablespoons molasses
1 egg
4 tablespoons m elted
1 cup sour milk
butter
2 cups well sifted flour
1 level teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon mixed spice
Stir well together sugar, molasses, butter, salt and
spices, then add egg and sour milk and soda. Pour in
flour, beat until smooth. Bake in moderate oven 40 to
60 minutes.
Mrs. Cramer.
Soft Ginger Bread
1 cup molasses
Lard and butter the size
1 egg
of an egg
1 teaspoon ginger
Pinch of salt
Stir stiff with flour and add 1 cup of boiling water
and one teaspoon of soda.
Mrs. E. C. Carey.
Griddle Cakes
1 cup sour milk (thick)
1/2 teaspoon soda
Flour enough to make
1/2 teaspoon salt
thin batter
1 tablespoon (heaping)
1 teaspoon baking pow-
corn meal
der
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
81
Ice Box Rolls
1 cup sugar
2 cakes Fleischmann's
1 cup lard
yeast
1 cup boiling water
1 level teaspoon salt
1 cup cold water
Flour to mix fairly stiff
2 eggs
Put in ice box over night and take out in the morn-
ing, let rise, then put in pan and bake when light.
Nut Bread
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons baking pow-
1 egg
der
1 1/2 cups milk
1 teaspoon salt
4 cups flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
Form in loaf. Let stand 1/2 hour in warm place.
Bake in slow oven about 1 hour.
Mrs. R. D. Sampson.
Nut Bread
2 eggs
3 teaspoons baking pow-
1 cup white sugar
der
1 cup sweet milk
2 tablespoons melted
1/2 teaspoon salt
shortening put in the
1 cup broken nuts
milk
3 1/2 cups flour
Fill pans half full, let stand twenty minutes, then
bake forty-five minutes.
Mrs. E. C. Carey.
82
Muffins and Hot Breads
Muffins
2 cups flour
4 tablespoons sugar
4 teaspoons baking pow-
2 eggs (separate eggs)
der
1 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup butter (melt)
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Muffins
1 1/2 cups flour
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 level tablespoons but-
3 teaspoons baking pow-
ter
der
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar
Mix dry ingredients, adding beaten egg, milk and
butter. Bake in moderate oven.
Mrs. E. H. Holtz.
Blueberry Muffins
1 egg
2 rounding teaspoons
1/2 cup sweet milk
cream tartar, and 1
1/2 cup cream
teaspoon soda sifted
2 tablespoons sugar
with 2 cups flour and
1/2 teaspoon salt.
Fold in half cup blueberries. Have tins hot and
bake in moderately hot oven.
Mrs. J. W. Young.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
83
Bran Muffins
1 egg (do not separate)
2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 cups flour
2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon salt
(melt the butter)
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1 cup sour milk (thick)
der
1 cup Pillsbury's bran
1/2 teaspoon soda
Beat egg, add sour milk and beat together, then add
flour, salt, baking powder, soda, and sugar, which have
been sifted together three times. Add melted butter and
bran, and bake in muffin pans. (The batter should be
thick).
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Can't Fail Breakfast Muffins
1 egg well beaten
1
teaspoon sugar
1 rounded tablespoon
1 teaspoon salt
butter
Beat these ingredients together until light, then add
one cup milk, two cups flour, sifted, with two teaspoons
of baking powder. Drop in well greased muffin rings and
bake twenty minutes in quick oven. Serve with butter
and syrup.
Mrs. Dwight Smith.
Field's Potato Flour Muffins
4 eggs
1 teaspoon baking pow-
1/4 teaspoon salt
der
1/2 cup white potato
2 tablespoons ice water
flour
1 tablespoon sugar
Beat whites of eggs very stiff and dry. Add salt
and sugar to beaten yolks and fold into whites. Sift flour
and baking powder twice and beat thoroughly into egg
mixture. Add ice water last. Bake in moderate oven
from fifteen to twenty minutes.
Mrs. H. M. Hollinger.
84
Muffins and Hot Breads
Scotch Drop Scones
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon saleratus
2 teaspoons cream of
Butter the size of an egg
tartar. (only 1 tea-
1 tablespoon of sugar
spoon if using sour
milk.)
Mix soft with milk, drop on greased griddle and
keep turning griddle around to cook them evenly. Turn
when one side is done and cook on the other.
Sheila White.
Superior Muffins
3 tablespoons sugar
Cream together and add
1 rounding tablespoon
1 egg well beaten
lard or butter
Sift together 2 cups flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking pow-
der. Add alternately to first mixture with one cup of
milk. Bake in greased muffin tin in hot oven for about
12 minutes. If corn meal muffins are desired substitute
1 cup of cornmeal for 1 cup of the flour.
Mrs. Karl Fisher.
Surprise Muffins
2 cups flour or
3 teaspoons baking
1 cup flour
powder
1 cup graham flour
1 tablespoon sugar
or
1/4 tsp. salt
1 cup flour
2 eggs
1 cup cornmeal
2 tablespoons shorten-
1 cup milk
ing
Sift flour and mix dry ingredients. Add milk, eggs,
and melted shortening. Mix and put tablespoon batter
in muffin tin. Drop in center of each 1 teaspoon currant
jelly or strawberry jam, or date, etc. Add another spoon
of batter and bake 20 to 25 minutes.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
85
Cheese Biscuits
Delicious with Fruit Salad
1 cup of flour
2 tablespoons of butter
2 1/2 teas. of baking pow-
3/8 cup of milk a nd
der
water
1/2 teas. of salt (scant)
Mix all together as you do baking powder biscuits
and then add one half cup of grated cheese.
E. Weidenmiller.
PIES
Butter Scotch Pie
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon butter
Melt together until brown and creamy.
Yolks of 2 eggs
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons flour
Mix together and pour into sugar and butter mix-
ture. Cook slowly over a low flame until smooth. Put
into double boiler and cook one hour. Put into previous-
ly cooled pie shell and top with meringue made of whites
of 2 eggs and 1/2 cup sugar. Bake in moderate oven.
Mrs. William G. Clark.
Chocolate Pie
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 squares bitter choco-
2 eggs, separated
late, dissolved in 2
2 level tablespoons corn
tablespoons boiling
starch
water.
Heat milk in double boiler, then add chocolate, salt,
yolks of eggs, sugar, and corn starch mixed smooth in a
little milk, and stir until it thickens. Turn the custard
into a baked crust and cover the pie with the whites of
eggs beaten to a froth with two tablespoons of powdered
sugar and vanilla. Brown meringue in oven.
Mrs. R. A. Del Prato.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
97
Delicious Lemon Pie
4 beaten egg yolks
Juice of one lemon
1 cup sugar
Grated rind of one
lemon
Cook in double boiler until thick. Add half of the
four egg whites which have been beaten stiff. Fill a
baked pastry shell with the mixture, cover with the re-
maining meringue and brown.
Mrs. V. M. Reed.
Lemon Cake Pie.
1 cup sugar
2 egg yolks well beaten
2 rounding tablespoons
Heaping tablespoon but-
flour
ter, melted
Grated rind and juice of
1 cup milk
two medium sized
lemons
Beat well together, then add stiffly beaten whites
and bake in slow oven, in a pastry lined pie tin' until
golden brown.
Mrs. Karl Fisher.
Spice Pie.
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 cup cream
1 teaspoon nutmeg, cin-
3 egg yolks
namon, cloves, all-
2 tablespoons flour
spice
Put in pie crust and bake with meringue on top.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
107
.
Mayonnaise Dressing
1 teaspoon sugar
1 a b 1 e S poon water
1 teaspoon mustard
(cold)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg (whole)
1
tablespoon 1 e m
Beat all well with Dover
juice
egg beater
1 tablespoon vinegar
Pour into the mixture slowly 1 pint of Wesson oil,
beating all the time. (POUR-not drop by drop.)
Can be made in less than 5 minutes.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Mayonnaise Without Oil
3 eggs well beaten
1 dessert spoon sugar
1/2 cup lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon mustard
3/4 tin Eagle Brand con-
densed milk
Mix thoroughly and beat until thick and fluffy.
Mrs. Shaughnessy.
Pineapple Mayonnaise
Juice from a large can
1 tablespoon corn
of pineapple
starch
Juice of 1 lemon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
2 eggs, beaten slightly
Mix dry ingredients, add juice and eggs, cook in
double boiler until thick and when cool add lemon juice.
Fold in 1/2 pint of whipped cream and serve on fruit
salad.
Mrs. LeRoy Nelson Sweet.
108
Salads and Dressings
Fish Salad
Left over baked or boiled fish makes a good salad.
Remove bones, fat and skin and chop the fish coarsely,
cut an equal quantity of celery as fine as for chicken
salad, add to fish and mix with mayonnaise. Serve on
crisp lettuce leaf.
Mrs. Mary McKee.
Thousand Island Dressing
1 cup m ayonnaise e
1/4 cup Heinz chili sauce
dressing
Pepper and salt
2 tablespoons 1emon
2 eggs (hard boiled)
juice
1 can pimento
2 tablespoons vinegar
12 olives
1/4 cup Heinz catsup
Onion heart
Chop fine and add to mayonnaise mixture.
Mrs. F. L. Rector.
Russian Dressing
2/3 cup oil
1/2 cup boiled mayon-
1/3 cup vinegar
naise
1/2 teaspoon each of salt,
1 teaspoon chives
pepper, and paprika
3 teaspoons chopped pi-
1/4 teaspoon French
mentos
mustard
3 teaspoons chili sauce
Mrs. Burton.
A Book of Unusual Recipes
109
Salad Cheese Ring (With Fruit Salad)
2 tablespoons Knox
To this add
Gelatine
3 cream cheese mashed
1/4 cup cold water and
with 1 teaspoon sugar
let stand 5 minutes,
1/2 teaspoon salt and a
add boiling water to
little pepper
fill the cup
8 tablespoons vinegar
1 pint whipped cream
Put in mold until hard and serve with fruit salad
with either cooked dressing or mayonnaise.
Mrs. David Suttle,
RECIPES
MEASUREMENTS
ARE ALL LEVEL
Doughnuts, Biscuits, Shortcake
CAN'T-FAIL DOUGHNUTS (Sweet Milk)
RECIPE NO. 1
(This makes about 30)
4 cupfuls sifted flour
1 cupful sugar
2 level teaspoonfuls salt
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
5 level teaspoonfuls baking
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
powder
7/8 cupful sweet milk
1 level teaspoonful nutmeg
2 beaten eggs
Sift the flour before measuring. Then sift
together the flour, salt, baking powder and nutmeg.
Add sugar; then VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil. Beat
the eggs, stir in the milk and mix all together. Turn
out on a well floured board, roll 1/4 inch thick, cut
with doughnut cutter and fry in deep, hot VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL.
CAN'T-FAIL DOUGHNUTS (Sour Milk)
RECIPE NO. 2
4 cupfuls sifted flour
1 tablespoonful VITTUCCI
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
4 teaspoonfuls baking
1 cupful thick sour milk
powder
1/4 teaspoonful soda
1 teaspoonful nutmeg
2 beaten eggs
1 cupful sugar
Measure flour after sifting; then sift again with
salt, baking powder and nutmeg. Add sugar; then
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Stir soda into sour
7
Eggs, Omelets and Cheese Dishes
ITALIENNE SCRAMBLED EGGS
RECIPE NO. 5
Break the required number of eggs in a bowl. To
6 eggs slightly beaten with a fork, add 1 cupful of
canned tomatoes, salt, pepper and paprika to taste
and a few drops of onion juice. Scramble the eggs
in 4 tablespoonfuls hot VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil.
CLAM OMELET
RECIPE NO. 6
(This Omelet contains a great amount of nourishment)
Make plain omelet (Recipe No. 7). Have ready
a sauce made as follows:
1 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/2 cupful clams and liquor
Salt and pepper to taste
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
Heat the milk and clams. Mix together the
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL and flour and stir into
the liquid when hot. Season to taste. Just before
turning the omelet, spread half with some of this
sauce, fold over, remove to hot platter and pour
balance around.
PLAIN OMELET
RECIPE NO. 7
4 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls water
Dash pepper
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Add the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil to the eggs
and beat slightly; then add the water, salt and pepper.
Pour a little VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil in an omelet
or frying pan and when hot, carefully pour in the
9
BRAISED HAMBURGER STEAK
RECIPE NO. 26
Form hamburger steak into a large flat cake,
mixing with it 1 tablespoonful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
OLIVE Oil for each pound of steak. Heat 2 table-
spoonfuls VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL in a skillet
and when hot, lay in the steak and brown quickly
on both sides. Then pour over it just enough milk
to come to the top. Let cook slowly until the liquid
is almost entirely absorbed. Season with salt and
pepper, remove to a hot platter and garnish with
parsley. Make gravy and pour over it.
BEEF LOAF
RECIPE NO. 27
2 pounds round steak
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
1/2 pound salt pork
1 teaspoonful sage
1 egg slightly beaten
1/2 teaspoonful sweet
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
marjoram
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
1/2 cupful fine dry bread
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
crumbs
1 cupful milk
Have the meat chopped fine. Mix all together,
form in a loaf. Put into a well oiled bread pan and
bake in a moderate oven about forty minutes. Serve
hot or cold.
ECONOMICAL BEEF LOAF, WITH RICE
A L' ITALIENNE
RECIPE NO. 28
1 pound Hamburg steak
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
1 cupful dry bread crumbs
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 tablespoonful minced onion
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2 teaspoonfuls salt
Mix all together, form into a loaf, place in a
baking pan with 1/2 cupful boiling water and bake in
a moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes, basting occasion-
ally. Serve on a hot platter surrounded with Rice
all' Italienne, Recipe No. 55.
19
VEAL AND BEEF LOAF
RECIPE NO. 29
(Makes 2 loaves)
1 pound fresh lean veal
1 teaspoonful pepper
2 pounds beef
1/4 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1 small grated onion
OLIVE Oil
1 tablespoonful allspice
1 cupful bread crumbs
1 tablespoonful salt
2 eggs slightly beaten
Have the meat chopped fine and freed from
gristle and fat. Mix all together, make into two
loaves. Roll in fine bread crumbs and put together
in the same pan. Make three or four creases across
the top of each and in the creases put a little sweet
or sour cream. Bake in a moderate oven about 2 1/2
hours. Excellent either hot or cold.
CANNELON OF BEEF AND RICE
RECIPE NO. 30
2 pounds chopped round steak
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
2 teaspoonfuls salt
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2 teaspoonfuls onion juice
3/4 cupful water or stock
1 slightly beaten egg
Boil 2 cupfuls of rice until tender. Make a meat
loaf of the above. Oil a roasting pan, set in the
loaf and surround with the rice. Pour over all a cup-
ful of boiling water, cover closely and bake in a mod-
erate oven about 45 minutes.
ROUND STEAK EN CASSEROLE
RECIPE NO. 31
2 pounds or more round steak
1/4 bayleaf
cut thick
Sprig parsley, minced
1/2 pound macaroni boiled
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
until tender
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1 cupful boiling water
Pound the steak and cut into pieces about an inch
wide and two inches long. Oil a casserole or baking
dish and lay in the boiled macaroni. Cover it with the
20
meat and pour over it the oil and hot water, and, if
liked, 1/2 cupful tomato juice. Cover tightly and
cook in a moderate oven 2 1/2 to 3 hours, adding more
boiling water if necessary. About half an hour be-
fore done, season to taste with salt and pepper. When
done, thicken the gravy with a little flour well mixed
with an equal quantity of VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE
Oil and cook two or three minutes more.
HAMBURG STEAK BALLS
RECIPE NO. 32
1 pound chopped round steak
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful chopped
1/2 teaspoonful pepper
parsley
4 drops onion juice
Mix all together and form into flat cakes. Heat
three tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL in
the frying pan and when hot put in the balls and fry.
Serve with Tomato Sauce, Recipes Nos. 64 or 65.
VEAL PATTIES
RECIPE NO. 33
1 pound raw finely chopped
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
veal
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
1/2 cupful fine cracker crumbs
Salt and Pepper to taste
1 egg
Mix together, form into cutlets, dip in flour, then
in beaten egg, then fine bread crumbs and fry in hot
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Put a small piece of
uncooked macaroni in the end of each to resemble a
bone.
STUFFED PORK TENDERLOIN
RECIPE NO. 34
Have the tenderloins split lengthwise but not cut
through, and pounded flat. Spread VITTUCCI VIRGIN
OLIVE Oil over the inside, then stuff with dressing
91
FISH OR POULTRY DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 41
1/3 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
2 level teaspoonfuls salt
OLIVE Oil
1/4 level teaspoonfuls pepper
1 1/2 cupfuls fine dry homemade
1 level teaspoonful sage
bread crumbs with
Pinch of thyme
1 1/2 cupfuls cracker crumbs
Pinch of savory
or
1 teaspoonful onion juice
2 1/2 cupfuls fine dry bakers'
bread crumbs with
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
Mix together the crumbs and seasonings. Pour
over them the oil, then the boiling water. Mix well.
OYSTER DRESSING FOR POULTRY
RECIPE NO. 42
The quantity given is sufficient for an ordinary
roasting chicken. For turkey, triple or quadruple the
quantity.
1 1/2 cupfuls dry bread crumbs
A few celery seed
1/2 cupful cracker crumbs
1/2 pint oysters
1/4 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Salt, pepper, thyme and
OLIVE OIL
sage to taste
1 teaspoonful onion juice
1 cupful boiling water
1 tablespoonful minced
parsley
Mix all together and stuff.
26
Sauces
++++
ANCHOVY SAUCE FOR MACARONI
OR SPHAGETTI
RECIPE NO. 57
Small can of Italian Salt
A little parsley
Anchovies
2 sections of garlic
Small bunch of celery
2 small onions
Wash anchovies and remove bone. Chop every-
thing together fine. Place in a pan with half a cup
of VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL, stir continually and
cook until brown. Then add one can of tomatoes;
salt and pepper to taste and cook very slowly for about
two hours.
(Sufficient to serve eight people)
BECHAMEL SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 58
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
3/4 cupful chicken stock
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1/2 cupful cream
3 tablespoonfuls flour
1 egg yolk
1/2 teaspoonful (scant) salt
Dash paprika
Mix the flour and VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
very smooth, then add the beaten egg yolk; stir well,
and add the cream and chicken stock gradually.
Season and let stand over boiling water for five or
six minutes.
CHEESE SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 59
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
3/4 cupful strong cheese,
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
grated fine
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1 tablespoonful minced
1 egg yolk
parsley
1 cupful milk
Beat the egg yolk slightly and add to the milk.
Put the oil and flour in a saucepan over the fire and
32
stir in the liquid gradually. Cook, stirring constantly
until thick. Season to taste with salt and pepper and
a dash of cayenne. Beat in the grated cheese, remove
at once from the fire and add the minced parsley.
Serve hot. Especially good with fish, asparagus or
cauliflower.
TARTARE SAUCE NO. 1
RECIPE NO. 60
1 cupful Mayonnaise
1 tablespoonful finely minced
1/2 tablespoonful finely minced
olives
capers
2 tablespoonfuls finely minced
sweet gherkins
Prepare the Mayonnaise, then add the minced
capers, olives and pickles. Serve with fish.
TARTARE SAUCE NO. 2
RECIPE NO. 61
1 cupful Mayonnaise
2 tablespoonfuls minced dill
2 tablespoonfuls minced
or sour pickle
canned pimento
Prepare the Mayonnaise, then add the finely
minced pimento and pickle.
TARTARE SAUCE NO. 3
RECIPE NO. 62
1 cupful Mayonnaise
1 small dill pickle, minced
1/2 cupful finely chopped
cabbage
Prepare the Mayonnaise, Recipe No. 94, then
add the chopped cabbage and minced pickle.
MINT SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 63
1/2 cupful finely minced mint
1/2 teaspoonful salt
leaves
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 tablespoonful powdered
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
sugar
1/2 cupful mild vinegar
Mix all together. Serve with lamb or mutton.
33
TOMATO SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 64
1 can tomatoes
1/4 bayleaf
1 medium sized onion, sliced
Salt and pepper to taste
1 clove
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 sprig parsley
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
3 tablespoonfuls flour
Put all together excepting the oil and flour and
simmer gently for 10 to 15 minutes. Strain through
a sieve.
Mix the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL and flour to
a smooth paste and stir in. Return to the fire and
cook slowly three or four minutes.
This is an excellent sauce for use with fish or
meat, or added to rice or macaroni.
TOMATO SAUCE NO. 2
RECIPE NO. 65
1 tablespoonful VITTUCCI
1/2 pint strained tomatoes
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoonful flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful onion juice
Strain the tomatoes, add onion juice, bay leaf
and salt. Rub oil and flour together in a saucepan;
add the tomato and stir until boiling; stand in hot
water for 10 minutes, strain and it is ready for use.
PARSLEY SAUCE
RECIPE NO. 66
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 tablespoonful minced
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
parsley
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Cayenne pepper to taste
Mix together and serve with steak or fish.
34
Salad Dressings
BOILED SALAD DRESSING (Sweet Milk)
RECIPE NO. 88
1/2 tablespoonful salt
2 egg yolks slightly beaten
Few grains cayenne
3/4 cupful sweet milk
1 1/2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/4 cupful vinegar
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1 teaspoonful mustard
OLIVE OIL
Mix the dry ingredients and add the eggs slightly
beaten. Stir well, then add the milk gradually. Put
on the fire in a double boiler and stir till hot, then pour
in the vinegar very slowly and cook until thick. When
thick, remove from the fire and add the oil very slowly.
When cold, and just before serving, dilute, if desired,
with whipped cream. Plain cream may be substituted
if preferred.
BOILED SALAD DRESSING (Sour Milk)
RECIPE NO. 89
1/2 tablespoonful salt
1 cupful sour milk
1 1/2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/4 teaspoonful soda
2 1/2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/4 cupful vinegar
1 teaspoonful mustard
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Few grains cayenne
OLIVE OIL
1 egg yolk
Mix the dry ingredients (except the soda) and
add the egg. Stir till well mixed. Dissolve the soda
in the sour milk and add. Put on the fire in a double
boiler and stir frequently until hot, then add the vine-
gar very slowly and cook until thick, stirring almost
constantly. When thick, remove from the fire and
pour in the oil very slowly. Just before serving,
dilute with plain or whipped cream.
41
PLAIN FRENCH DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 90
1 tablespoonful vinegar
Salt, pepper and paprika to
4 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
suit taste
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Put salt, pepper, paprika, vinegar and olive oil in
a small bowl and mix well, then pour over salad when
ready to serve. Lemon juice can be used instead of
vinegar.
FRENCH DRESSING (With Tomato Catsup)
RECIPE NO. 91
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
3/4 teaspoonful salt
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
1/8 teaspoonful pepper
1 tablespoonful vinegar
Dash cayenne or paprika
2 teaspoonfuls tomato
catsup
Mix all together and pour over a green salad.
PERFECTION FRENCH DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 92
1/4 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/s teaspoonful pepper
OLIVE OIL
Few grains paprika
1 tablespoonful tarragon
4 drops onion juice
vinegar
Garlic
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Roquefort cheese
Rub the mixing bowl with a bruised clove of
garlic. Remove the garlic and mix together all in-
gredients but the cheese. When well mixed, break in
bits of roquefort cheese and beat till creamy. Excel-
lent served with cauliflower, asparagus, spinach or fish
salads.
FRUIT FRENCH DRESSING
RECIPE NO. 93
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 tablespoonful powdered
1/4 teaspoonful paprika
sugar
1/4 cupful orange juice
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
QLIVE OIL
Mix all together and serve with fruit salads.
Excellent on a salad of oranges, celery and nuts.
42
VITTUCCI MAYONNAISE
RECIPE NO. 94
4 egg yolks
1 pint VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Salt, white pepper, mustard
OLIVE Oil
Few grains cayenne or
4 teaspoonfuls lemon juice
paprika
Put all ingredients except lemon juice and olive
oil in bowl and mix well with egg beater, then add
olive oil, drop by drop. When the mixture is of good
consistency the oil may be added faster. When it is
too thick to beat well add a little lemon juice, then
add more oil, and so on alternately until both lemon
juice and olive oil are used. Utensils should be cold.
Stir all one way. This recipe is very simple and makes
the most delicious Mayonnaise for all kinds of salads
-fruit, vegetable, fish, etc.
(Above sufficient for eight persons.)
EGGLESS MAYONNAISE
RECIPE NO. 95
1 teaspoonful dry mustard
1/3 cupful vinegar or lemon
1 teaspoonful cold water
juice
1 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Salt, cayenne and paprika
OLIVE OIL
to taste
Put mustard in bottom of mixing bowl and stir
in the water till smooth. Add oil very slowly, at first
drop by drop, stirring vigorously. As it thickens,
dilute with part of the vinegar, then add oil and vine-
gar alternately, stirring constantly. Season to taste
with salt, cayenne and paprika.
In making this Mayonnaise, be sure the water
and mustard are mixed until very smooth before add-
ing oil, or it will not be successful.
43
MAP OF ITALY MAYONNAISE
RECIPE NO. 96
2 egg yolks (1 will answer)
1 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/2 teaspoonful dry mustard
OLIVE OIL
1 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful vinegar
1/8 teaspoonful paprika
1/2 tablespoonful lemon juice
Few grains cayenne
Put egg yolks and seasonings in bowl and mix.
Then add oil, at first drop by drop, mixing in
thoroughly, then a little faster, beating constantly.
When too thick to beat well, add the vinegar, then
more oil, then lemon and oil until all is used.
Two egg yolks make a richer Mayonnaise, but
one will answer if preferred.
of
44
Cakes, Pies and Fillings
WHITE LAYER CAKE
RECIPE NO. 97
1/3 cupful butter
2 rounding teaspoonfuls
1 1/4 cupfuls sugar
baking powder
1/2 cupful milk
3 egg whites
1 3/4 cupful flour (measured
1 teaspoonful vanilla
after sifting)
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and
work together until very creamy. Sift the flour and
baking powder together and add, alternately with
the milk, to the butter and sugar. Beat the whites
very stiff and dry and fold in; add vanilla and bake.
The oven should be very slow until batter rises to its
full capacity (about double its bulk), then increase
the heat and bake until the cake shrinks from sides
of pan. When cool spread with either the Chocolate
Cake Filling or Lemon €ake Filling, Recipes Nos.
101 and 102.
CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS
RECIPE NO. 98
(These ECLAIRS are very easy to make and are perfect. No
flavor of oil can be detected.)
1 cupful hot water
1 cupful unsifted flour
1/3 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/4 teaspoonful salt
OLIVE Oil
3 unbeaten eggs
Put the water and VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
together and when boiling, stir in the flour and salt.
Remove from the fire at once. Cool. When cool drop
in the unbeaten eggs. Beat all together vigorously for
5 or 6 minutes or until very smooth. Drop from a
tablespoon onto buttered pans in oblong shape, about
an inch wide and four inches long. Allow about four
inches between each to permit of spreading. Bake in
a moderately hot oven for 30 minutes.
45
Immediately upon removing from the oven,
spread upon the top of each a little melted chocolate
sweetened with a little pulverized sugar. When cold
split open one side and put in a spoonful of the fol-
lowing custard:
CUSTARD FOR ECLAIR FILLING
1 cupful sugar
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 cupful unsifted flour
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Pinch salt
1 pint milk
2 eggs slightly beaten
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls vanilla
Mix sugar and flour, add eggs slightly beaten
and salt. Mix well. then add VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE
OIL, then the milk gradually. Cook in a double boiler
until very thick, stirring almost constantly. When
partially cool, add vanilla. When cold, fill the eclairs.
PHILADELPHIA CREAM PIE
RECIPE NO. 99
2 eggs
3/4 teaspoonful baking powder
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful flour (measured
1/2 cupful boiling water
after sifting)
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls vanilla
Beat eggs together and stir in sugar. Add boiling
water. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt
and sift in; then add vanilla and beat smooth. Pour
into two well greased cake pans and bake in rather a
slow oven until it shrinks from sides of pan. When
cool spread the following filling between the two layers
and on top:
CHOCOLATE CUSTARD FILLING
2 eggs
1 7/8 cupfuls milk
1/2 cupful flour
2 squares unsweetened
1 cupful sugar
chocolate, melted
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla
3 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
Beat eggs slightly and stir in sugar, flour, salt
and then the oil. Bring milk to a boil in double boiler,
and when boiling stir this in. Add melted chocolate
46
and stir and cook until thick. Remove from fire and
beat very smooth. When partially cool, add vanilla
and spread on cake.
PINEAPPLE FRITTERS
RECIPE NO. 100
1/2 cupful flour
1 beaten egg
1/2 teaspoonful baking powder
Sliced canned pineapple
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/4 cupful pineapple juice
2 tablespoonfuls granulated
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
sugar
Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, sugar and
salt; add the slightly beaten egg, then the pineapple
juice. Beat to a smooth batter. Dip into the batter
slices of canned pineapple and drop gently into deep,
hot VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL, and fry to a golden
brown. Drain on brown paper; roll in powdered sugar
and serve hot.
LEMON CAKE FILLING
RECIPE NO. 101
3 beaten egg yolks
1/2 cupful cold water
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
2 slightly rounding table-
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
spoonfuls corn starch
1 cupful sugar
Juice and rind of 1 large or
1 1/2 small lemons
Mix the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL with the
beaten egg yolks; add the sugar, juice and rind of
lemon and half of the water. Let come to a boil, then
stir in the cornstarch thoroughly dissolved in the other
half of the water. Cook until thick, stirring almost
constantly. When cool, spread.
CHOCOLATE CAKE FILLING
RECIPE NO. 102
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 cupful sugar
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
3 egg yolks
1 1/2 squares unsweetened
1/2 cupful milk
chocolate
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla
Put the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil and choco-
47
late in a skillet and stir until chocolate is melted. Set
aside from fire. Beat the egg yolks, add the milk and
sugar and mix thoroughly; then pour gradually into
the melted chocolate and oil. Return to fire and cook,
stirring constantly, until very thick. When cool,
spread between and on top of cake.
LEMON PIE FILLING
RECIPE NO. 103
(Sufficient for 1 pie)
1/4 cupful unsifted flour
1 1/2 large or 2 small lemons
2 tablespoonfuls corn starch
1 cupful cold water
3/4 cupful sugar
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 teaspoonful salt
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2 eggs
Mix thoroughly the sugar, flour, cornstarch, salt
and the grated rind of the lemons. Add the yolks of
the eggs well beaten, stirring in thoroughly; then the
lemon juice. Mix well, then add the water and
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Cook until thick, in
the top of a double boiler, stirring frequently. When
cold, spread in a pie shell which has been previously
baked and cooled. Beat the whites of the eggs to a
stiff froth, add to them two tablespoonfuls of sugar
and spread irregularly over the top. Set in a hot
oven or under the gas flame to brown, watching closely
so it will not scorch.
of
48
Pudding and Pudding Sauces
CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE
RECIPE NO. 104
1/2 cupful sugar
1 square unsweetened
1/4 cupful flour
chocolate, melted
1 egg slightly beaten
1 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
Mix sugar and flour. Stir in the egg, then the
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Melt chocolate and
add; then the milk. Cook in double boiler until thick,
stirring almost constantly. Serve either hot or cold
with sugar and cream.
LEMON PUDDING
RECIPE NO. 105
1 cupful fine dry bread
1 beaten egg
crumbs
1/2 cupful sugar
Grated rind of 1 lemon
1 pint milk
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
Mix and bake slowly for about 40 minutes. Serve
with Lemon Pudding Sauce, Recipe No. 109.
PEACH PUDDING WITH WHIPPED
CREAM
RECIPE NO. 106
2 cupfuls peaches (mashed)
4 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
and juice
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
3/4 cupfuls sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls flour (level)
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/2 cupful cold water
Grated rind of 1/2 lemon
2 egg yolks
1/2 pint heavy cream, whipped
Mix sugar, flour and salt and add slightly beaten
egg yolks. Mix thoroughly, then add VITTUCCI
VIRGIN OLIVE OIL, then the water and peaches. Cook,
49
stirring constantly until very thick. When very cold
fold in half of the whipped cream, using other half
on top.
ORANGE CUSTARD
RECIPE NO. 107
(Will serve six)
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
4 eggs slightly beaten
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
Grated rind of 4 oranges
OLIVE OIL
1 cupful orange juice
1/4 cupful flour (unsifted)
Juice of 1 lemon
Sliced oranges
Mix together the sugar, flour, salt and orange
rind; add the eggs, then the VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE
OIL and orange juice. Cook until very thick, stirring
constantly. Serve very cold, poured over sliced
oranges.
LEMON BUTTER (Very Fine)
RECIPE NO. 108
1/2 cupful VITTUCCI VIRGIN
4 lemons, juice and grated
OLIVE OIL
rind
1 1/2 cupfuls sugar
1 rounding tablespoonful
5 well beaten eggs
butter
Beat the eggs without separating. Mix all to-
gether with exception of the butter and cook in double
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Just before
removing from the fire, add butter.
To be served cold, either on tarts or as a jelly.
Excellent to spread on bread for children.
Those who do not care for the flavor of oil, can
obtain the nourishment without the flavor in this
Lemon Butter, as the flavor of the oil is not noticeable.
50
LEMON PUDDING SAUCE (Excellent)
RECIPE NO. 109
2 tablespoonfuls corn starch
Grated rind and juice of 1
1 cupful sugar
lemon
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls VITTUCCI
1 egg yolk slightly beaten
VIRGIN OLIVE Oil
1 cupful cold water
Mix together the cornstarch, sugar, salt and
lemon rind. Add the slightly beaten egg and mix
thoroughly. Then add the lemon juice and oil. Stir
well and add the water. Boil, stirring constantly, until
it thickens.
of
of
51
Pickles and Relishes
INDIA RELISH
RECIPE NO. 120
2 large or 3 small heads
1 dozen large onions
cabbage
8 green Bell peppers
8 pounds green tomatoes
6 red Bell peppers
2 pounds ripe tomatoes
Chop all fine. Sprinkle well with salt and let
stand over night. In the morning drain and put on
the stove with 3 pounds of brown sugar and enough
cider vinegar to cover. Boil slowly one hour; then
add 1 cupful horseradish mixed with 1 cupful VIT-
TUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE OIL. Pack in stone crocks or
glass jars and cover.
CAULIFLOWER PICKLES OR
CHOW CHOW
RECIPE NO. 121
3 large heads cauliflower
1 cupful flour
2 pounds string beans
1/4 pound box dry mustard
2 quarts small onions
2 green peppers
5 quarts vinegar
1/2 teaspoonful cayenne
1 quart VITTUCCI VIRGIN
1/2 ounce tumeric
OLIVE Oil
1/2 cup black pepper
5 cupfuls sugar
Salt to taste
5 eggs
Five heads cauliflower may be used, omitting the
string beans if preferred.
Boil the cauliflower and beans separately in boil-
ing water until tender, after first separating the flow-
erettes and cutting the beans in thirds. Mix together
the dry ingredients, beat the eggs and add, then stir
in the Olive Oil. Add the vinegar and boil until it
thickens and is smooth, stirring constantly. Drain
the water from the cauliflower and beans and add
with the chopped peppers and boil five minutes longer.
Pour into sterilized crocks or jars and cover.
55
BEET RELISH
RECIPE NO. 122
1 quart raw cabbage chopped
1 tablespoonful or more salt
fine
1 teaspoonful pepper
1 quart boiled beets chopped
1 cupful grated horseradish
fine
Mix together and cover with cold vinegar and
VITTUCCI VIRGIN OLIVE Oil in the proportion of 1/4
of the oil to 3/4 vinegar.
MUSTARD PICKLES
RECIPE NO. 123
1 quart small cucumbers
6 large cucumbers peeled
1 quart small onions
and sliced
2 large cauliflower
1 red pepper
1 quart celery
2 green peppers
1 1/2 quarts string beans
Separate the flowerettes of the cauliflower,
cut the celery into 1/2 inch lengths, string the beans
and cut into thirds and chop the peppers coarsely.
Mix all together, cover with salted water (1 cupful
of salt to 1 gallon cold water), let stand 24 hours,
then scald. Drain off the water and pack the pickles
into jars or crocks and pour over them the following
paste:
1 1/2 cupfuls VITTUCCI VIRGIN
3 tablespoonfuls celery seed
OLIVE OIL
2 cupfuls granulated sugar
3 quarts cider vinegar
1 1/4 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful dry mustard
Additional salt to taste
2 tablespoonfuls tumeric
Mix the dry ingredients; stir in the oil, then the
vinegar. Boil, stirring constantly until it thickens.
PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS
RECIPE NO. 124
As seeds are gathered, wash and drain and put
into enough cold vinegar (to which should be added
1 teaspoonful salt to each pint of vinegar) to well
cover. Add seeds as gathered from time to time.
56
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
21
CHICKEN MUSHROOM SOUP
th
MOR GUE GUY TONG
3 cups Chinese mushrooms chopped into
small dice
3/4 cup chicken chopped to same size
9 cups primary soup
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
1 teaspoonful Chinese sauce
1/2 teaspoonful oil
Salt, and a few drops of sesamum-seed oil
Chinese mushrooms can be secured at any
Chinese grocery store.
(a) Cook the mushrooms for 1/2 hour, and
then drain off and put into the primary soup.
Boil for 15 minutes.
(b) Add the chopped chicken; the eggs well
beaten; and all the other ingredients. Take
off the stove 1/2 minute after the cornstarch
is added.
Serve in bowls. Garnish the top of each
bowl with 1 teaspoonful of Chinese ham cut
into dice.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
23
DUCK SOUP
ARP TONG
1 medium-sized duck without bones
1 1/2 cups Chinese mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
4 cups celery
2 teaspoonfuls oil
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
1 teaspoonful Chinese sauce
1/4 teaspoonful cornstarch
Salt
(a) Chop all into dice.
(b) Heat the cooking pan for 1/2 minute.
Then grease it thoroughly with oil.
(c) Add salt and all other ingredients ex-
cept duck. Keep turning for about 5 minutes.
(d) Add primary soup and boil very slowly.
(e) Mix together well the duck (cut into
dice), the oil, sesamum-seed oil, Chinese sauce,
and cornstarch.
(f) When primary soup has boiled 1/2 hour,
add the duck mixture. Boil slowly for another
1/2 hour.
For a garnish, use Chinese ham dice.
24
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PORK SOUP
GUE YORK TONG
2 cups lean pork cut into fragments
2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch
2 teaspoonfuls Chinese sauce
5 cups primary soup
2 cups Chinese mushrooms
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
3 cups star melon cut into small pieces after
the rind is removed
Salt
(a) Mix the pork, cornstarch, Chinese
sauce, and salt.
(b) Bring the primary soup to a boil. Then
add the pork mixture and the mushrooms, and
cook for 1/2 hour.
(c) Ten minutes before taking soup off
stove, add the melon.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
25
FISH SOUP
YUE TONG
1 five-pound fish
5 pints primary soup
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups bamboo shoots
1 cup Chinese mushrooms
(a) Dress the fish and cook until soft. Take
out bones. Tear the meat to pieces (1 1/2 inches
long).
(b) Cut the secondary vegetables into dice.
Cook for 20 minutes.
(c) Put the vegetables and the fish into the
primary soup, and cook for 15 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy. Stir the soup well
and take from the stove. Serve in bowls.
Garnish each bowl.
26
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
NOODLE SOUP
-
YAT KOI MIN
3 pounds noodles
2 teaspoonfuls Chinese sauce
1 teaspoonful oil
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
Noodles are made of flour, eggs, salt, and a
small portion of alkaline solution.
Inasmuch as good noodles require very skil-
ful labor to make them, and they can be ob-
tained much cheaper in a Chinese noodle fac-
tory than if made at home, the author does not
describe the process.
The best quality contains no water.
To make yat koi min (noodle soup) proceed
as follows:
(a) Put the noodles into boiling water, and
boil until they float on the surface.
(b) Quickly place in cold water and stir.
(c) Put again into boiling water for 1 min-
ute.
(d) Put into a clean bowl containing the
28
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
NOODLE SOUP WITH CHICKEN
AND MUSHROOMS
BIL -
MOR GÜE GUY YAT KOI MIN
3 pounds noodles
2 teaspoonfuls Chinese sauce
1 teaspoonful oil
A few drops sesamum-seed oil
1 cup chicken
1 1/2 cups mushrooms
1 1/2 cups water chestnuts
(a) Put the noodles into boiling water, and
boil until they float on the surface.
(b) Quickly place in cold water and stir.
(c) Put again into boiling water for 1 min-
ute.
(d) Put into a clean bowl containing the oil,
sesamum-seed oil, Chinese sauce, and a little
pepper.
(e) Cut the chicken, mushrooms, and water
chestnuts into pieces 1 1/2 inches long. Cook
until done. Mix together and add Chinese
gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
31
FRIED NOODLES
CHOW MIN
2 pounds Chinese noodles
1 1/2 cups onions cut into threads
1 cup raw pork cut into threads 1 1/2 inches
long
3/4 cup roast pork cut into threads
1 egg fried and cut into threads 1 1/2 inches
lc.g
2 tablespoonfuls lard
1 tablespoonful Chinese sauce
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
3 cups primary soup
Get the noodles from a Chinese noodle store.
There are two kinds, so in ordering state that
you want noodles for Chow Min.
Egg threads are made by beating an egg
well, pouring it into a hot oiled pan, then let-
ting it run all over the surface of the pan, form-
ing a thin layer of yellow egg about one-sixty-
fourth inch thick.
To make Chow Min, proceed as follows:
(a) Put the lard on the noodles, and steam
for 1/2 hour.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
33
CHICKEN FRIED NOODLES
to
GUY CHOW MIN
1 cup onions cut into threads
2 cupfuls chicken cut into threads 1 1/2 inches
long
1 egg, fried and cut into threads
1 cup Chinese mushrooms
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
1 tablespoonful Chinese sauce
3 cups primary soup
2 tablespoonfuls lard
(a) Put the lard on the noodles, and steam
for 1/2 hour.
(b) After the noodles have been steamed,
they tend to stay together; therefore they
should be loosened up with a fork.
(c) Place the steamed noodles in a pan of
boiling oil and fry until nicely brown. Then
put on a dish.
(d) Cook the onion and chicken until done.
(e) Make a gravy of the primary soup,
cornstarch (first dissolved in water), Chinese
THE CHINESE cook BOOK
35
ALMOND CHICKEN
1 IT
HUNG YUEN GUY DING
2 cups almonds
2 cups onions cut into dice
2 cups water chestnuts cut into dice
2 cups mushrooms cut into dice
1 cup celery cut into dice
1 pound chicken, without bones
(a) Skin the almonds by putting in boil-
ing water. Fry in boiling oil until they turn
yellow.
(b) Put the water chestnuts, onions, mush-
rooms, and celery in a hot cooking pan con-
taining some oil, and fry rapidly. Keep them
moving, so that each particle receives the same
amount of heat. Add water enough to cover
and boil for 15 minutes.
(c) Put the chicken in a hot oiled pan and
fry for 2 minutes. Add enough primary soup
to cover, and cook, with the cover on, for 10
minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy. Take from the
stove at once.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
37
CHICKEN CHOP SUEY
A
chow GUY PIN
1 chicken cut into fragments
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups celery cut into thin pieces
This dish is not known in China. From the
name it means simply a variety of small pieces.
However, the principles of Chinese cooking
are the same.
(a) Put the water chestnuts, mushrooms,
bamboo shoots, and celery into a hot pan con-
taining oil. Fry for 2 minutes. Add water
and cook for 15 minutes.
(b) Put the chicken in a frying-pan con-
taining oil and fry for 5 minutes.
(c) Add the secondary vegetables and mix
well.
(d) Add enough primary soup to cover,
and cook for 5 minutes.
(e) Add Chinese gravy and stir. Remove
from the stove at once.
38
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHESTNUT CHICKEN
7 m
LUT GE GUY
1 cup chicken
2 cups chestnuts
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Cut the chicken into pieces 3/4 inch by
1 1/2 inches. Cut the chestnuts, water chest-
nuts, and mushrooms into big pieces.
(b) Rub salt and a little Chinese sauce on
the chicken. Then put into a pot of boiling
oil until the color becomes yellow.
(c) Now put into primary soup and boil
until nearly soft.
(d) Add the secondary vegetables and cook
until done.
No gravy is necessary with Lut Ge Guy.
Serve hot and add parsley for garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
39
CHICKEN HASH
GUY SUNG
1 chicken cut into very small pieces
2 cups each of water chestnuts, mushrooms,
and bamboo shoots, chopped fine
1/2 teaspoonful of ginger juice
1/2 teaspoonful of Fun Wine
1 head of lettuce cut into threads
1 tablespoonful of Chinese ham cut into dice
1 handful of fried noodles
(a) Fry the chopped chicken in a hot, oiled
pan.
(b) Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then the chopped water chestnuts, mushrooms,
and bamboo shoots. Mix well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook until done.
(d) Add Chinese gravy and remove from
the stove at once.
(e) Salt to suit the taste.
Serve on top of lettuce. Use the Chinese
ham dice and the fried noodles as a garnish.
40
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHICKEN THREAD
GUY SUE
1 chicken cut into threads
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups Chinese mushrooms
(a) Cook the bamboo shoots and mush-
rooms for 20 minutes. Then mix with the
chicken.
(b) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook for 5 minutes.
(c) Add Chinese gravy and remove from
the stove at once.
42
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
WALNUT CHICKEN
IT
HOP TOO GUY DING
3 cups English walnuts
2 cups onions cut into dice
2 cups water chestnuts cut into dice
1 1/2 cups celery cut into dice
1 pound of chicken without bones
(a) Remove the skins from the walnuts by
placing them in boiling water. Then fry them
in boiling oil until they turn yellow.
(b) Put the secondary vegetables in a hot
cooking-pan containing oil and fry for 2 or 3
minutes. Keep them moving so that each
particle receives the same amount of heat.
Add enough primary soup to cover and boil
for 15 minutes.
(c) Put the chicken in a hot, oiled pan and
fry for 2 minutes.
(d) Add the vegetables.
(e) Add Chinese gravy and remove from
the stove.
Place on a dish and garnish with the fried
walnuts.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
43
PINEAPPLE CHICKEN
BII
BOR LOR GUY
1 chicken
1 can pineapple
2 cups green peppers
2 cups celery
1 cup canned sour ginger
1/2 cup vinegar
1/4 cup Fun Wine
2 eggs
(a) Cut the chicken, pineapple, peppers,
celery, and ginger into pieces 1 1/2 inches long.
(b) Break the eggs into the chicken and
mix well together with a little cornstarch and
salt. Then put into boiling oil and fry until
all becomes yellow.
(c) Put the pineapple, pepper, celery, and
ginger into a hot, oiled pan and fry for 2 min-
utes. Add the fried chicken. Mix well and
add the Fun Wine. Cook over a hot fire for
5 minutes; then add enough primary soup to
cover and cook until about one cup of liquid
is left.
46
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PAN CHICKEN
BE
WATT GUY
1 cup lily flower
1 cup fungus
2 cups dry mushrooms
1 chicken
A small piece of ginger root, without the skin
1/4 cup of Fun Wine
(a) Soak the lily flower, fungus, and the
mushrooms in cold water for 1/2 hour.
(b) Wash the chicken inside and outside
with Chinese sauce. Put in a pan with oil
and fry for 10 minutes. Add the Fun Wine
and salt. Add 2 cups of water.
(c) Now put all into a small pot and add
the lily flower, fungus, mushrooms, and gin-
ger. Keep cover on tight and cook for 1/2 hour
over a slow fire.
This is the most delicious chicken ever
known.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
47
BIRD-NEST IN CHICKEN
FONG TUNG YUEN
1 1/2 cups bird-nest
1 large whole chicken (at least 7 pounds)
1 bowl primary soup
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
(a) Soak the bird-nest in cold water for 1
hour. Then wash gently and cook for 1 hour
with a piece of ginger.
(b) Pick the chicken, chop off the head,
feet and wings, cut 1 line 4 inches long and
take out the interior. Clean the chicken and
rub inside and outside with salt. Place in a
bowl with the cut side on top.
(c) Fill the chicken with the bird-nest and
the primary soup. Steam for 3 hours in a
double-boiler.
(d) Now transfer into a second bowl by us-
ing a bowl a little larger than the first bowl and
putting this second bowl on top of the first
bowl mouth to mouth.
Garnish with the Chinese ham dice.
48
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
STEAMED CHICKEN
BIL
GING GUY
1 chicken cut into pieces about 1 1/2 inches
long
2 cups mushrooms
A few slices of ginger root
4 pieces of red dates
1 Chinese onion
Cornstarch, sauce, salt, and oil
(a) Mix well the chicken, oil, salt, corn-
starch, and sauce.
(b) Add mushrooms, ginger root, and red
dates. Put on a plate and steam for 1/2 hour.
(c) Add Chinese onion cut into threads 1 1/2
inches long.
Garnish with parsley. Serve with mustard,
sauce, and oil.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
49
ROAST CHICKEN
SUE GUY
2 chickens (about 4 pounds each)
2 teaspoonfuls spicery powder
2 cups Chinese sauce
A few drops of sesamum-seed oil
2 teaspoonfuls salt
(a) Put the chickens in hot, not boiling,
water for 2 minutes and then add the spicery
powder, sauce, oil, and salt. Leave the chick-
ens in for 20 minutes. Be sure every bit of
chicken is dipped into it.
(b) Place the chickens as shown in the dia-
gram, having first started the fire, that the wall
is hot. Roast for 1 hour.
A hot fire is necessary before the chickens
are put into the stove; after the chickens are in,
the fire must be kept low. There must be no
smoke.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
51
ROAST DUCK
SUE ARP
2 ducks (about 4 pounds each)
2 teaspoonfuls spicery powder
2 cups Chinese sauce
A few drops of sesamum-seed oil
2 teaspoonfuls salt
(a) Put the ducks in hot, not boiling, water
for 2 minutes and then add the spicery powder,
sauce, oil, and salt. Leave the ducks in for
20 minutes. Be sure every bit of duck is
dipped into it.
(b) Place the ducks as shown in the dia-
gram, having first started the fire, that the
wall is hot. Roast for 1 hour.
A hot fire is necessary before the ducks are
put into the stove; after the ducks are in, the
first must be kept low. There must be no
smoke.
52
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PARSLEY DUCK
T4
SI wo ARP
2 ducks
2 cups mushrooms
2 small pieces ginger root, mashed
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
Parsley enough to cover the dish 1 inch thick
(a) Open the ducks with one 4-inch cut in
the back of each. Take out the interior. Wash
thoroughly and dry. Now wash the ducks in-
side and out with sweet sauce.
(b) Cook the duck in a pan of boiling oil
until yellow.
(c) Put the duck into a frying-pan. Cover
with the mushrooms, ginger, and Fun Wine.
Add 1/3 more than enough primary soup to
cover all. Cook until the duck is done.
When done, there must be 3 cups of liquid
left. Therefore, the amount of primary soup
used depends on the age and size of the duck,
because the older the duck the longer it takes
to cook.
(d) Make a gravy of the liquid left, with
54
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
DUCK HASH
ARP SUNG
1 duck chopped into pieces as small as pos-
sible
2 cups water chestnuts chopped fine
2 cups mushrooms chopped fine
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
1 head of lettuce cut into threads
2 cups fried noodles
(a) Fry the chopped duck in a hot, oiled
pan. Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then add the chopped water chestnuts, mush-
rooms, and bamboo shoots. Mix well. Add
enough primary soup to cover and cook until
done.
(b) Add Chinese gravy, and salt to suit
the taste. Serve on top of lettuce. Use the
Chinese ham dice and the fried noodles as a
garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
55
DUCK CHOP SUEY
HÉ A
chow ARP PIN
1 chicken
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups celery
2 cups primary soup
(a) Cut the chicken and all of the vege-
tables into small pieces.
(b) Put the secondary vegetables into a
hot pan containing oil. Fry for 2 minutes.
Add water and cook for 15 minutes.
(c) Place the duck fragments in a hot, oiled
pan and fry for 5 minutes.
(d) Add the secondary vegetables and mix
well.
(e) Add the primary soup and cook for 5
more minutes.
(f) Add Chinese gravy. Mix well and
serve at once.
56
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
POTATO DUCK
KI It
SU JAI ARP
1 duck (about 7 pounds)
The same amount of skinned potatoes
A cake of Chinese red cheese
1 small piece of ginger, pounded
1/4 cup Fun Wine
A piece of green carrot
(a) Put the duck into an oiled frying-pan
and fry until brown. Turn frequently, so
that every part of the duck receives the same
amount of heat.
(b) Add the ginger and Fun Wine and fry
for 2 minutes. Take out and put into a bowl.
The liquid left in the frying-pan is to be put
into a separate bowl.
(c) Add 2 cups of water to the cheese and
mash. Rub this well into the duck, inside and
outside.
(d) Put the potatoes into the cooking-pan.
Place the duck on top. Add enough water to
cover all. Over this pour any cheese liquid
which remains. Add the carrot.
(e) Cover the pan and cook until tender.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
57
WINE VAPOR DUCK
1111 the
SUN SIN ARP
2 ducks (about 4 pounds each)
2 cups, 3/4 full, of any wine
1 teaspoonful spicery salt
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham
(a) Open the ducks with one cut about 4
inches long in the back of each.
(b) When the ducks have been cleaned,
place them in a suitable bowl with the back
upward.
(c) Rub the duck inside and out with spic-
ery salt.
(d) Place carefully in each duck one of the
cups of wine. Be sure the wine does not spill
on the duck.
(e) Steam in a double-boiler for 2 1/2 hours,
or until tender.
(f) Remove cover. Pour in cold water to
stop the steam. By means of a cloth take out
the cups of wine.
(g) Pour off the gravy into another bowl.
Skim off the oil.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
59
STEAMED DUCK
DON JUN ARP
1 duck (about 8 pounds)
2 cups chestnuts without skins
1 cup barley
1/2 cup white nuts without skins
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
(a) Soak the chestnuts and barley in cold
water for 1 hour.
(b) Open the back of the duck with one
cut about 4 inches long. Take out the bones
without tearing the meat.
(c) When the duck has been cleaned wash
it inside and out with Chinese sauce. Salt
thoroughly and put into a hot, oiled pan and
fry for 10 minutes.
(d) Add the Fun Wine. Turn the duck
frequently.
(e) Now put the duck, with the open side
upward, in a bowl a little larger than the duck.
Fill with the chestnuts, barley, and white nuts
and any juice left in the frying-pan.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
61
EAST MELON DUCK
DUNG QUAR ARP
1 boneless duck cut into small dice
1 east melon (8 inches in diameter)
1 handful skinned water chestnuts cut into
small dice
1 handful lotus nuts
1 handful mushrooms cut into small dice
1 small piece of ginger without the skin,
pounded
1 teaspoonful Fun Wine
(a) Cut off the top of the melon as shown in
the picture. Take out the seeds.
(b) Oil the cooking-pan and heat.
(c) Fry the duck for 10 minutes.
(d) Add the ginger and Fun Wine. Salt.
Fry for 1 minute more. Turn frequently.
(e) Add chestnuts, lotus nuts, mushrooms,
and enough primary soup to fill the melon.
Cook until the soup boils.
(f) Transfer all into the melon. Cover
with the piece you cut from the melon. Steam
for about 3 1/2 hours; the size of melon decides
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
65
PINEAPPLE DUCK
BOR LOR ARP
1 duck
1 can of pineapple
2 cups green peppers
2 cups celery
4 pieces of canned sour ginger
1/4 cup Fun Wine
2 eggs
(a) Cut into small oblong pieces the duck,
pineapple, peppers, celery, and ginger.
(b) Break the eggs into the duck and mix
well together with a little cornstarch and salt.
(c) Put the pineapple, pepper, celery, and
ginger into a hot, oiled pan and fry for 2
minutes.
(d) Add the fried duck. Mix well and add
the Fun Wine. Have a hot fire. After 5
minutes add enough primary soup to cover
the substances and cook until about one cup
of liquid is left.
(e) Add the vinegar and sugar and mix
with Chinese gravy.
66
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
DUCK THREADS
ARP SUE
1 duck
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups mushrooms
3 cups primary soup
(a) Cook the duck until tender and tear
off the meat into shreds.
(b) Cook the bamboo shoots and mush-
rooms for 20 minutes. Then mix with the
duck.
(c) Add the primary soup and cook a while
longer.
(d) Add Chinese gravy, mix well, and
serve.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
67
ROAST DUCK BISCUITS
SUE ARP BOW
1 duck
2 pounds flour
1/2 cup lard
1 tablespoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls baking powder
(a) Roast the duck, take out the bones,
and cut the meat into small pieces.
(b) Sift the flour and put into a suitable
bowl. Mix the flour with enough cold water
to make a thin dough.
(c) Roll the dough out flat and cut into
the size of biscuits.
(d) Now roll the biscuits flat and fill them
with the duck meat, wrapping the dough
around the meat into a perfect ball. Close it
up carefully. The amount of duck should be
one-half the amount of dough.
(e) Place in a double-boiler for 10 minutes
before putting over the fire. Steam for 3/4
of an hour.
68
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
WILD DUCK
YAR ARP
1 duck
2 cups chestnuts without skins
2 cups water chestnuts
1 cup chopped pork
1 cup barley
1/2 cup white nuts without skins
(a) Soak the chestnuts and the barley in
cold water for 1 hour.
(b) Open the back of the duck with one cut
about 4 inches long. Take out the bones with-
out tearing the meat.
(c) Wash the duck inside and out with
Chinese sauce. Salt thoroughly and put into
an oiled pan and fry for 10 minutes. Add
the Fun Wine. Turn the duck frequently.
Take from the stove and put into a bowl a
little larger than the duck.
(d) Fill the duck with the chestnuts, barley,
nuts and any juice left in the frying-pan.
Steam for 2 1/2 hours.
(e) Get a bowl larger than the one holding
72
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
LAMB HASH
**
#
MIN YUNG SUNG
2 pounds of lamb
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
1 head lettuce cut into threads
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham cut into dice
1 cup fried noodles
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
The lamb, water chestnuts, mushrooms, and
bamboo shoots are to be chopped as fine as
possible.
(a) Fry the chopped lamb in a hot, oiled
pan.
(b) Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then add the chopped water chestnuts, mush-
rooms, and bamboo shoots. Mix well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook until done. Serve on top of the lettuce
threads.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
73
STEAMED LAMB
#
DON MIN YUNG
2 pounds of lamb cut into pieces 3/4 inch by
1 1/2 inches by 3/4 inch
2 cups dry mushrooms
2 cups unskinned chestnuts
3 red dates
1 cup Fun Wine
(a) Use water to boil the lamb for 10 min-
utes.
(b) Take out the lamb and dip into a bowl
of salt and sweet sauce (Chinese name Chew
Yout).
(c) Put all into a suitable bowl. Add
enough primary soup to cover and add the
chestnuts, red dates, and Fun Wine. Steam
until tender.
(d) Remove any oil from the liquid, and
serve.
74
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
LAMB CHOP SUEY
#
chow MIN YUNG
1 1/2 pounds lamb
25 threads skinless ginger root
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups dry mushrooms
1 cup fried noodles
(a) Cut all the ingredients except the noo-
dles into threads 1 1/2 inches long.
(b) Fry the ginger root, bamboo shoots,
and mushrooms in a hot, oiled pan for 10
minutes.
(c) Add the lamb. Mix well. Cook for 5
more minutes.
(d) Add one bowl of primary soup and
cook until 1 cup of liquid is left.
(e) Add Chinese gravy.
Use the fried noodles for a garnish. Serve
when hot.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
75
PLAIN CHOP SUEY.
HE
FARN CHOP
2 pounds pork
2 pounds bean sprouts
2 cups onion threads
(a) Cut the pork into pieces 1/16 inch by 1/2
inch by 1 inch.
(b) Put the pork, bean sprouts, and onions
into an oiled pan and fry for 10 minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover and cook
for 15 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
76
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
EXTRA CHOP SUEY
tio **
GAR LEW CHOP
2 pounds pork cut into pieces 1/16 inch by
1/2 inch by 1 inch
Bean sprouts equal to amount of pork
2 cups onions cut into threads
2 cups bamboo shoots cut into pieces same
size as pork
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Put the pork, bean sprouts, onions,
bamboo shoots and mushrooms into an oiled
pan and fry for 10 minutes.
(b) Add water enough to cover and cook
for 15 minutes.
(c) Add Chinese gravy.
Remove from the stove and serve at once.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
77
PORK HASH
the K
GE YORK SUNG
1 1/2 pounds pork
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 cups bamboo shoots
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
1 teaspoonful Fun Wine
1 head lettuce cut into threads
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham cut into dice
1 cup fried noodles
The pork, water chestnuts, mushrooms, and
bamboo shoots are to be chopped as fine as
possible.
(a) Fry the chopped pork in a hot, oiled
pan.
(b) Add the ginger juice and Fun Wine.
Then add the chopped water chestnuts, mush-
rooms, and bamboo shoots. Mix well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover and
cook until done. Serve on top of the lettuce
threads.
78
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PORK THREADS
K
**
GE YORK SE
1 1/2 pounds pork
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups mushrooms
3 cups primary soup
(a) Cook the pork until tender and tear off
the meat into threads.
(b) Cook the bamboo shoots and mush-
rooms for 20 minutes. Then mix with the
pork.
(c) Add the primary soup and cook again.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
79
POTATO PORK
K
SE JI GE YORK
Pork (2 pounds)
4 pounds skinned potatoes
1 small piece ginger, pounded
1 cake Chinese red cheese
1/2 cup Fun Wine
1 piece green carrot
(a) Oil the frying-pan. Put in the pork.
Fry until brown. Turn frequently so that
every part of the pork receives the same
amount of heat.
(b) Add the ginger and the wine and fry
for 2 minutes.
(c) Take out and put into a bowl. Put the
juice left in the frying-pan into a separate
bowl.
(d) Add 2 cups of water to the red cheese
and mash.
(e) Put the potatoes into a cooking-pan.
Add the carrot. Place the pork on top. Add
enough water to cover. Pour over this the
juice and the cheese.
(f) Cover the pan and cook for 1 1/2 hours.
80
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
BRITTLE PORK
KE K
so JOU GE YORK
3 pounds pork cut into pieces 3/4 inch by 1 1/2
inches by 1/4 inch
A few pieces of Octogon spicery
2 tablespoonfuls Fun Wine
1 egg
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
(a) Boil the pork and spicery in plain water
for 10 minutes. Let cool.
(b) Break the egg. Mix with the corn-
starch. Then mix with the pork.
(c) Fry in boiling oil until it gets red.
(d) Put the fried pork into cold water and
change water several times until no oil floats
on the surface.
(e) Dry the pork and place in a bowl.
(f) Add the Fun Wine, and steam for 2
hours.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
81
STEAMED CHESTNUT PORK
#7 the HE KS
LUT GE DONG GE YORK
2 1/2 pounds pork cut into pieces 1 inch by 3/4
inch by 1 1/2 inches
2 cups skinless chestnuts
1 cup Fun Wine
(a) Dip the pork into sweet sauce and fry
in boiling oil until red.
(b) Take out the pork and place in cold
water. Change water until no oil is on top of
the water.
(c) Dry fried pork and place in a bowl.
(d) Add the chestnuts and the Fun Wine.
Steam for 1 3/4 hours.
82
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PORK SALAD
it
1 1/11 K
LANG BONG GE YORK
2 1/2 pounds pork (uncut)
2 1/2 pounds string beans cut 2 inches long
1/2 cup mustard
1 cup vinegar
(a) Boil the pork until done and place in
cold water. Punch several small holes with a
large needle. Gently squeeze the oil out of it.
Change water until no oil is on the top.
(b) Cut the pork into thin pieces 1/32 inch
by 3/4 inch by 1 1/2 inches. Mix with salt to suit
the taste, and with the mustard and vinegar.
(c) Boil the string beans for 10 minutes.
Put into a bowl, and add salt and enough vine-
gar to cover.
(d) Cover and keep air tight for 2 hours.
(e) Place the pork on top of the string
beans and serve.
Use parsley and sage cut into threads for a
garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
83
FRIED PIGS' RIBS
#
chow PAI QUIT
4 pounds pigs' ribs
1 cup vinegar
2 teaspoonfuls sugar
1 cup Fun Wine
2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch
1 teaspoonful Chinese sauce
1 egg
(a) Cut the ribs into pieces 3/4 inch by 3/4
inch by 1 1/2 inches, and mix well with the egg,
Chinese sauce, salt, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch
and 1 teaspoonful sugar. Fry in boiling oil
until brown.
(b) Add to the mixture the vinegar, Fun
Wine, 2 cups of water, and the remaining su-
gar and cornstarch. Cook until nearly dry.
84
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
BEEF CHOP SUEY
4 K A
chow OUT YORK PIN
/4 pound beef
4 cups celery cut into pieces 1/2 inch long
2 cups bean sprouts
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
A few pieces sesamum-seed oil
A few threads ginger root
(a) Cut the beef into pieces 1/32 inch by
3/4 inch by 1 1/2 inches. Mix thoroughly with
the cornstarch, sesamum-seed oil, Fun Wine,
and a little salt and Chinese sauce.
(b) Put the celery and bean sprouts into a
hot, oiled pan and fry for 5 minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover. Spread
the beef on top. Cover tightly and cook until
nearly dry.
(d) Add Chinese gravy and mix well.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
85
GREEN PEPPER BEEF
4
LAR GUE OUT
2 pounds beef
2 cups green peppers cut into pieces 1 inch
by 1 inch
1 cup celery, chopped
1 cup bean sprouts
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
A few pieces sesamum-seed oil
A few threads ginger root
(a) Cut the beef into pieces 1/32 inch by
3/4 inch by 1 1/2 inches. Mix with the corn-
starch oil, sesamum-seed oil, and Chinese
sauce.
(b) Put the celery, bean sprouts, and green
peppers into a hot, oiled pan and fry for 5
minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover. Spread
the beef on top. Cover tightly and cook until
nearly dry.
(d) Add Chinese gravy and mix well.
86
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FISH CHOP SUEY
H
chow YUE PIN
5 pounds pike not less than 2 1/2 inches in
diameter. Take out bones and cut into
thin fragments
2 cups mushrooms
A few pieces of ginger cut into pieces 1/32
inch by 3/4 inch by 1 inch
2 cups bamboo shoots cut into pieces 3/4 by
1 1/2 inches by 1/32 inch.
2 cups bean sprouts
(a) Remove the skin from the pike and
take out the bones. Cut into pieces 1/16 inch
thick.
(b) Fry the mushrooms, ginger, bamboo
shoots, and bean sprouts in a hot, oiled pan for
5 minutes.
(c) Add water enough to cover all. Cook
for 15 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
(e) Add the pike and mix well.
Garnish with parsley, and serve hot.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
87
FISH BALLS
*
YUE YUN
6 pounds pike
1 1/2 cups salted almonds or peanuts
1/2 cup Chinese ham
6 pounds vegetables in season
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
(a) Remove the skin from the pike and take
out the bones. Run through the grinder three
times.
(b) Cut into small pieces the almonds, ham,
and the vegetables.
(c) Put the pike into a big bowl and mix
with it the cornstarch, 1 cup of
water and 1 teaspoonful salt.
Stir well for an hour. Be sure
to stir in the same direction all
the time.
(d) Add the nuts and ham.
Mix well.
(e) Wash your hands as clean as possible.
Hold the mixture in your hand and squeeze
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
89
FRIED FISH BALLS
# III *L
GUR YUE YUN
6 pounds pike
1 1/2 cups salted almonds or peanuts
1/2 cup Chinese ham
6 pounds vegetables in season
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Remove the skin from the pike and take
out the bones. Run through the grinder three
times.
(b) Cut into small pieces the almonds, ham,
and the vegetables.
(c) Put the pike into a big bowl and mix
with it the cornstarch, 1 cup of water and 1
teaspoonful salt. Stir well for an hour. Be
sure to stir in the same direction all the
time.
(d) Add the nuts and ham. Mix well.
(e) Make the fish balls as described on the
preceding page. Add a beaten egg, and boil
in boiling oil until they turn yellow.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
91
RAW FISH PARTY
4
YUE SANG
7 pounds pike
6 pounds carrots
2 cups green peppers
2 pieces ginger root
1 cup Chinese Chow Chow
A few lemon leaves
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1 tablespoonful fried sesamum-seed
1 teaspoonful powdered salted almonds
1 teaspoonful powdered salted peanuts
3 tablespoonfuls peanut oil
1 tablespoonful vinegar
2 cups chrysanthemums
(a) Remove the skin from the fish and take
out the bones. Cut into pieces 1/16 inch by 1
inch by 1 1/2 inches. Dry with a clean cloth.
(b) Cut into pieces 1/16 inch by 1/16 inch
by 1 1/2 inches the carrots, green peppers, gin-
ger root, Chow Chow, and lemon leaves.
(c) Put the carrots into a suitable bag and
squeeze all the juice out of them.
(d) Put the vinegar and a little salt in a
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
103
#
SHRIMP CHOP SUEY
1
chow HAR YUN
2 pounds shrimp with the shells off
2 cups dry mushrooms
2 cups bean sprouts
1 piece of onion cut into threads
1/2 teaspoonful Fun Wine
(a) Fry mushrooms, bean sprouts, and on-
ion in an oily pan for 10 minutes. Add
enough water to cover. Boil for 15 minutes.
(b) Fry the shrimp in a hot, oiled pan and
add the Fun Wine. Keep frying until the
shrimp turns red.
(c) Mix the shrimp with the mushrooms,
bean sprouts, and onion, and add 2 cups of
primary soup. When it boils, add Chinese
gravy.
104
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
STEAMED SHRIMP
DON HAR
24 large shrimps
48 pieces bamboo shoots
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1 teaspoonful ginger root juice
(a) Remove the shells from the shrimps and
cut into halves. Fry in a hot oiled pan.
(b) Mix together the Fun Wine and the
ginger root juice. Add this liquid to the
shrimps. Cook for 5 minutes. Drain off the
liquid but do not throw it away.
(c) The 48 pieces of bamboo shoots should
be the same size as the halves of the shrimp,
1/16 inch long. Place the shrimp and bamboo
shoots in a bowl, arranging them-first a piece
of shrimp and then a piece of bamboo shoot,
and so on-having them parallel.
(d) Add 1/2 cup primary soup and steam for
2 hours.
(e) Turn now into another bowl by placing
the two bowls mouth to mouth. Add gravy
and serve.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
105
FRIED SHRIMP
#
JOUT HAR
2 pounds shrimp
2 pounds green peppers
2 eggs
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
(a) Mix up the shrimp, eggs and corn-
starch. Add salt to suit the taste. Put one
by one into a pan of boiling oil. Fry until
brown.
(b) Cut the green peppers into pieces the
same size as the shrimp. Fry in an oiled pan
for 2 minutes. Then add the shrimp and mix
well.
(c) Add enough primary soup to cover.
Cook for 10 minutes.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
Garnish with parsley and serve.
106
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
OYSTER CHOP SUEY
A
chow HO SE PIN
2 dozen oysters
2, cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups celery
A few pieces of pork
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1 teaspoonful ginger juice
(a) Cut the oysters, bamboo shoots, chest-
nuts, celery, and pork into fragments.
(b) Put the oysters into boiling water for
10 minutes. Then fry the oysters in a hot oiled
pan.
(c) Add the Fun Wine and the ginger
juice. Continue to cook for 5 minutes.
(d) Fry the bamboo shoots, water chestnuts,
celery, and pork in an oiled pan for 5 minutes.
Add to oysters.
(e) Add 1 cup primary soup and boil until
about 1 cup of liquid remains.
(f) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
107
STEAMED OYSTERS
tx
DON HO SE
2 1/2 dozen oysters
Lard-skin (enough to wrap the oysters)
1 teaspoonful ginger juice
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
Whites of 2 eggs
(a) Wash the oysters. Boil them in water
for 10 minutes. Then fry in hot oil.
(b) Add the Fun Wine and ginger juice.
Fry for 7 minutes.
(c) Cut the lard-skin into pieces as wide
as the oysters and about 4 inches long. Wrap
each oyster with a piece of lard-skin, using
the white of egg for paste.
(d) Put the wrapped oysters into boiling
oil and fry until they are brown.
(e) Now set them in a bowl and steam for
1 1/2 hours.
Serve on lettuce.
108
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
ROASTED OYSTERS
HE It
SU HO SEE
2 1/2 dozen oysters
1 cup red vinegar
Sesamum-seed oil
Sugar
Salt
(a) Dry the oysters with a clean, dry cloth.
Then dip in oil.
(b) String the oysters through a wire and
roast until done over a charcoal fire. Have
them about 1 foot above the fire.
Serve with a sauce made of the red vinegar,
sesamum-seed oil, sugar, and salt.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
109
LOBSTER CHOP SUEY
A
chow LUNG HAR PIN
1 lobster (about 6 pounds)
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups celery
A few pieces of Chinese onion
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1 teaspoonful ginger root juice
(a) Boil the lobster in water until it turns
red. Take off the shell and cut the meat into
fragments not longer than 1 1/2 inches.
(b) Fry the lobster with the Fun Wine, and
ginger root juice for 5 minutes over a hot fire.
(c) Cut the bamboo shoots, water chestnuts,
celery, and onion into pieces the size of the
lobster fragments. Fry these in a hot, oiled
pan for 3 minutes. Add water enough to
cover and cook for 10 minutes. Then mix with
the lobster.
(d) When there is about 1 cup of liquid
left, add Chinese gravy, mix well, and serve.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
111
CRAB SOUP
HI TONG
6 crabs
1 cup water chestnuts
1 cup bamboo shoots
1 cup mushrooms
7 pints primary soup
(a) Remove the shells from the crabs and
put into boiling water for 1/2 hour. By means
of a fork take out the meat and break into
small pieces.
(b) Cut secondary vegetables into pieces.
Cook for 20 minutes.
(c) Now put the secondary vegetables in
with the crab.
(d) Add primary soup and cook for 15 min-
utes.
(e) Add Chinese gravy, mix well, and re-
move from the stove at once. Stir in parsley
and garnish.
112
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FRIED SOFT-SHELL CRAB
* tike
OUT YUN HORK HI
6 soft-shell crabs
2 eggs
1 cup red vinegar
1 tablespoonful cornstarch
(a) Mix the crab with the cornstarch and
eggs. Salt to taste.
(b) Fry in boiling oil until golden brown.
Serve with the red vinegar.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
113
FRIED CHINESE TOMATO WITH
CRAB
HI SUE KAR
6 crabs
Chinese tomato equal in weight to crabs, in-
cluding shell
1 tablespoonful Fun Wine
1/2 teaspoonful ginger juice
1 cup primary soup
(a) Wash the crabs. Open the shell. Steam
until they turn red. By means of a fork take
off all the meat. Tear it into small pieces.
(b) Fry the tomato in boiling oil until it
turns yellow. Then mash into starch.
(c) Fry the crab in a hot, oiled pan.
(d) Add ginger juice and Fun Wine. Turn
often.
(e) Add the tomato. Mix well.
(f) Add the primary soup. When all is dry,
remove from the stove at once.
(g) Add salt and red vinegar to improve
the taste.
Garnish with parsley.
128
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
PLAIN OMELET
El
chow DON
12 eggs
A little oil
Salt
Chinese ham dice
Parsley
(a) Break the eggs in a bowl. Add oil and
salt. Beat well.
(b) Put plenty of oil in a hot frying-pan.
Be sure that every part of the pan is covered
with oil.
(c) Have a medium fire. Place the eggs in
the pan and keep turning with a cooking-
shovel.
(d) When the omelet is done add the Chi-
nese ham dice and parsley for garnish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
129
PORK OMELET
FO YUNG YORK
12 eggs
1 pound pork
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
Twelve eggs, a little oil, salt, Chinese ham
dice, parsley.
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, pork, bamboo shoots,
and water chestnuts into threads 1 1/2 inches
long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
130
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHICKEN OMELET
FO YUN GUY
12 eggs
1 1/2 pounds chicken
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, chicken, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
131
SHRIMP OMELET
FO YUNG HAR
12 eggs
1 pound shrimp
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, shrimp, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
132
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CRAB OMELET
FO YUNG HIGH
6 crabs
12 eggs
2 onions
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
(a) Beat the eggs well and put them in a
bowl with oil and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, crabs, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long.
(c) Mix together all of the ingredients and
fry in boiling oil until done.
(d) Put all in a bowl and add Chinese
gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK 133
LOBSTER OMELET
FO YUNG LUNG HA
3 pounds lobster
12 eggs
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups water chestnuts
2 cups mushrooms
2 onions
(a) Beat the eggs well in a bowl with oil
and salt.
(b) Cut the onions, lobster, bamboo shoots,
water chestnuts, and mushrooms into threads
1 1/2 inches long. Cook until done.
(c) Add beaten eggs and mix well. Con-
tinue to cook until eggs are done.
134
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
BEAN CAKE OMELET
(I)
FO YUNG DOW FO
12 eggs
A little oil
Salt
6 pieces bean cake
Chinese ham dice
Parsley
(a) Beat the eggs with a little salt and oil.
(b) Fry the bean cakes in an oiled pan.
Add water and boil for 10 minutes.
(c) Put plenty of oil in the pan, greasing
it well all over. Put in the egg. Keep on
turning until nearly done. Add the bean cake
and cook until done.
Use Chinese ham dice and parsley for gar-
nish.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
135
FRIED EGGS
XF El
YOUT JAR DON
12 eggs
1 cup dried mushrooms
1 1/2 pounds chicken
A few Chinese onions
A piece of ginger root
(a) Boil the eggs until hard. Take off the
shell without destroying the shape of the eggs.
Now fry them in boiling oil.
(b) Cut the mushrooms, chicken, bamboo
shoots, and ginger root into threads 1 1/2 inches
long. Fry for 5 minutes in a hot, oiled pan.
(c) Pour this over the eggs. Add twice
more than enough primary soup to cover and
cook until 2 cups of liquid remain.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
Serve with parsley as a garnish.
136
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
EGG ROLL
DAN GUN
6 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls dry mushrooms
2 tablespoonfuls bean sprouts
2 tablespoonfuls chicken meat
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham
(a) Break the eggs into a bowl. Beat well
with oil and salt. Have a low fire. Oil pan.
Place in it one tablespoonful of well-beaten
egg. Take hold of the pan and let the egg
run all over the surface of the pan. A layer
of egg will be formed.
(b) Cut the mushrooms, Chinese ham, bean
sprouts, and chicken into threads. Fry for 5
minutes in an oiled pan. Salt to suit the taste.
Add enough water to cover and cook until dry.
When nearly dry, turn constantly to prevent
burning.
(c) Roll this in the egg, making the roll 1
inch in diameter and as long as the egg layer.
Use white of egg for paste. Cut carefully into
the desired length.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
137
CHECKER-BOARD EGGS
El
KA GE DON
12 eggs
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
2 cups bamboo shoots
1 cup celery
1 cup water chestnuts
(a) Cut the ham and secondary vegetables
into threads 1 1/2 inches long. Fry in an oiled
pan. Mix well. Add enough primary soup
to cover. Cook until done. Salt to suit the
taste.
(b) Beat the eggs well with oil and salt.
Put them into a hot pan and let them run all
over the pan evenly. Turn over.
(c) Put this egg layer on a dish. Cover
one-half of the layer with the fried ham, bam-
boo shoot, celery, and water chestnuts about 3/4
inch thick. Then cover this with the other
half of the egg layer.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
138
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FISH ROLL
El
YEE YORK DAN GUN
6 eggs
4 pounds pike
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
1 cup peanuts, pounded
1 cup Chinese roast pork
(a) Break the eggs into a bowl. Beat well
with oil and salt. Have a low fire. Oil pan.
Place into it 1 tablespoonful well beaten egg.
Take hold of the pan and let the egg run over
the surface of the pan. A layer of egg will be
formed.
(b) Remove the skin from the pike and
take out the bones. Grind the meat through
a fine grinder several times, or pound with a
hammer as fine as possible. Beat well for 3/4
hour with salt and a small amount of oil.
(c) Cut the Chinese ham and pork into dice.
Mix well with the remaining egg, the pike,
and the peanuts.
(d) Roll this mixture into the egg layer,
140
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
GOLD AND SILVER EGG
El
GOM NON DON
12 eggs
3 pounds pike
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham
(a) Break the eggs carefully. Put the
whites in one bowl and the yolks in another
bowl. To each bowl add an equal amount of
cold, boiled water and mix well.
(b) Grind or hammer the pike (with skin
and bones removed). Beat with a little water.
Mix well with the whites of the eggs. Salt to
suit the taste.
(c) Chop the Chinese ham into pieces as
small as possible. Mix with the yolks of the
eggs. Salt to suit the taste.
(d) Now put the Chinese ham on one side
of the dish and the pike on the other side. Do
not let them mix. Steam for 20 minutes.
When done there will be gold color on one side
of the dish and silver on the other side.
Add oil and parsley before serving.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
141
STUFFED EGG
YUNG DON
6 eggs
Shrimp or crab meat chopped fine
Chinese ham, diced
Chicken, chopped fine
Water chestnuts or Chinese onions chopped
fine
(The amount of meat and water chestnuts
combined should be one-half the volume of the
yolks of the eggs.)
(a) Oil enough egg cups. Break the eggs
carefully into these, putting in the whites first.
Now put the unbeaten yolk in the center of
the cup, letting it float on top. Steam the
eggs until done.
(b) With a spoon carefully take off the
yolk of the egg.
(c) Fill the egg with the chicken and other
ingredients, well mixed. Steam about 20 min-
utes.
Serve with sesamum-seed oil and sauce.
142
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
FISH SWIMMING IN A GOLDEN
POND
THE
El
YUE YORK JING DON
7 eggs
2 pounds pike
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the skin from the pike. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit
the taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the pike on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
143
SHRIMP IN GOLDEN POND
HAR JING DON
of eggs
1 pound shrimp
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the skin from the shrimp. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit the
taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the shrimp on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
144
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CRAB IN GOLDEN POND
the
HI JOK JING DON
7 eggs
3 pounds crab
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the shell from the crab. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit
the taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the crab on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
145
LOBSTER IN GOLDEN POND
* B
LUNG HA JING DON
7 eggs
3 pounds lobster
1 tablespoonful Chinese ham dice
(a) Remove the shell from the lobster. Cut
the meat into small pieces.
(b) Mix the eggs with an equal amount of
cold, boiled water. Beat well. Salt to suit
the taste.
(c) Put the eggs in a suitable bowl. Spread
the lobster on top. Steam for 20 minutes.
Garnish with the ham and parsley, and serve
with oil and sauce.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
153
BEAN BISCUIT
15
DO SAR BOW
1 pound red beans
2 pounds flour
1/2 cup lard
1 teaspoonful salt
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
(a) Cook the beans in water for 3. hours,
and mash. Place in water so that the skins of
the beans float on top. Remove these and then
filter the beans through a thick cloth and let
dry. Now mix with the lard and a little sugar.
(b) Sift the flour and mix with it enough
cold water to make a thin dough.
(c) Roll the dough out thin. Cut in the size
of biscuits.
(d) Now roll these biscuits flat and fill each
one with the beans, wrapping the dough around
the beans to make a perfect ball. Close the
dough up carefully.
(e) Let the dough biscuits stand in a
double-boiler for 10 minutes before putting on
the fire. Steam for 3/4 hour.
154
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
STUFFED SQUASH
II
YUNG CHIN GUAR
1 squash
3 pounds pike, ground
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham dice
2 Chinese onions, diced
1/2 cup salted almonds, diced
(a) Put the pike in a small amount of salt
water and stir for 1/2 hour. Then mix with the
ham, onions, and almonds.
(b) Remove the seeds from the squash and
fill with the pike, ham, etc. Fry in boiling oil
until yellow.
(c) Cook in primary soup for 1/2 hour.
(d) Add a gravy made of Chinese sauce, a
few drops of sesamum-seed oil, sweet sauce,
and cornstarch.
Garnish with parsley.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
155
STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS
YUNG LAR CHU
18 green peppers
3 pounds pike, ground
2 tablespoonfuls Chinese ham dice
2 Chinese onions, diced
1/2 cup salted almonds, diced
(a) Put the pike in a small amount of salt
water and stir for 1/2 hour. Then mix with the
ham, onions, and almonds.
(b) Cut the peppers into halves, take out
the seeds, and fill with the pike, ham, etc. Fry
in boiling oil until yellow.
(c) Cook in primary soup for 1/2 hour.
(d) Add a gravy made of Chinese sauce, a
few drops of sesamum-seed oil, sweet sauce,
and cornstarch.
Garnish with parsley.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
157
FOOD OF THE GOD OF LAW HORN
LAW HORN JAI
12 pieces bean cake
2 cups white nuts
2 cups fungus
A few pieces of bean stick
2 cups bamboo shoots
2 cups dry mushrooms
(a) Cut each bean cake into 4 pieces. Fry
in boiling oil until nicely brown. Put in cold
water and change the water until no oil floats
on the top.
(b) Soak the fungus, bean stick, and nuts
in cold water for 1/2 hour.
(c) Cut the bamboo shoots into pieces 1 1/2
inches by 1 inch by 1/16 inch.
(d) Put all the ingredients except the
mushrooms into an oiled pan and cover with
water. Cook for 1 hour.
(e) Add the mushrooms and cook for 15
minutes.
(f) Add Chinese gravy.
158
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
SOFT IMMORTAL FOOD
YUEN JAI
12 pieces bean cake
2 cups dry mushrooms
4 ounces Chinese vermicelli
A few bean sticks
(a) Cut each piece of bean cake into 4
pieces.
(b) Soak the mushrooms, vermicelli, and
bean sticks in water for 1/2 hour. Cut the ver-
micelli into pieces 3 inches long.
(c) Put all of the ingredients in cold water
and cook for 1 hour. Put in plenty of oil and
red cheese.
(d) Add Chinese gravy.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
159
HARD IMMORTAL FOOD
ARN JAI
12 pieces bean cake
East melon (twice the amount of bean cake)
2 cups white nuts
(a) Cut each bean cake into 4 pieces. Cut
the melon into pieces 1 inch by 1 inch by 1 1/2
inches.
(b) Fry all in an oiled pan.
(c) Add enough water to cover. Add 1/4
cake of red cheese and plenty of oil. Mix.
Cook for 1 hour.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
183
FRIED RICE
ii
chow LON FON
4 bowls cooked rice
3/4 pounds chicken or pork cut into cubes
2 cups secondary vegetables
5 eggs
1 cup primary soup
(a) Put the rice in a hot, oiled pan and
cook until it changes color, turning frequently
with a cooking-shovel.
(b) Fry the chicken and secondary vege-
tables for 3 minutes in a hot, oiled pan. Add
cold water and cook for 15 minutes. Pour
off the water and add the rice.
(c) Beat the eggs well and add to the rice.
(d) Add the primary soup and continue to
cook until the egg appears to be done.
184
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
CHINESE MEAT BISCUIT
#
SANG YORK BOW
6 cups flour
1 yeast cake
2 small tablespoonfuls salt
1 tablespoonful sugar
3 potatoes
1 tablespoonful lard
(a) Wash and pare the potatoes. Cover
with cold water. Boil until tender. Mash
the potatoes in the same water in which they
are boiled. Let stand until just luke-warm.
(b) Put in the salt and sugar.
(c) Add the lard and yeast cake. Dissolve
thoroughly.
(d) Sift the flour thoroughly and put into
a pan. Make a hole in the middle of it.
Slowly pour in the potato mixture. Mix well.
(e) Dredge the hands well with flour.
Turn the dough out on the mixing-board. Use
as little flour as possible on the hands when
kneading the dough-only enough to keep the
186
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
ALMOND CAKE
1 iff
HON YUN BUEN
1 pound flour
1/2 pound sugar
1/2 pound lard
5 eggs
1/4 teaspoonful alkaline solution
(a) Mix the flour, sugar, lard, eggs, and
solution well on a suitable board. Add a little
quantity of lard at a time until every particle
of flour will contain an equal amount of each
substance.
(b) Make into a cake of any desired size.
In the center of each place an almond.
(c) Put into a suitable pan and bake in the
oven until nicely browned. The length of time
depends on the temperature of the oven and
the amount of cake.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
187
CHINESE SPONGE CAKE
*
GUY DON GO
10 eggs
1 pound sugar
2/3 pound flour
A few drops of lemon juice
(a) Beat the eggs in a suitable bowl. Mix
well with sugar. Beat for an hour, being care-
ful always to beat in one direction.
(b) Mix with the flour and lemon juice.
(c) Put into a suitable pan and steam for
3/4 hour.
188
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
WATER CHESTNUT PUDDING
it +
MAR TI GO
2 cups water chestnut powder
1 cup sugar
6 cups water
(a) Dissolve the water chestnut powder in
a little cold water. Mash well.
(b) Now add the sugar and the 6 cups of
water. Stir well.
(c) Put into a suitable pan. Steam until
done (about 1 hour).
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
189
LILY-ROOT PUDDING
OUT FUN GO
2 cups lily-root powder
1 cup sugar
6 cups water
(a) Dissolve the lily-root powder in a small
quantity of cold water. Mash well.
(b) To this add the 6 cups of water and the
sugar. Stir well.
(c) Put into a suitable pan. Steam until
done (about 1 hour).
190
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
GRAY POTATO PUDDING
wo TOU GO
1 cup dry pork
1 cup dry shrimp
1 cup dry Chinese olives
1 cup dry Chinese frankfurters
1 cup dry Chinese onions
2 pounds gray potatoes
1 pound Chinese gim-flower
(a) Cut into small pieces the pork, shrimp,
olives, frankfurters, and onions.
(b) Pare the potatoes. Rub them on a
rough grater, or on a board having plenty of
nails pointing out 1/16 inch.
(c) Mix all of the ingredients together with
2 bowls of plain cold water. Salt to suit the
taste.
(d) Put into a suitable pan and steam for
1 hour.
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
191
PEANUT CANDY
the 4
FAR SUNG TONG
1 pound peanuts
1/2 pound sugar
(a) Fry the nuts in a hot pan for 10 min-
utes. Take off the skins.
(b) Put 1 bowl of water in a hot, oiled pan.
To this add the sugar. Cook, stirring con-
stantly, until there is no water left.
(c) Mix the peanuts with the sugar on a
board. Roll while hot until the mixture is 1/2
inch thick. Let cool.
(d) Cut to desired size.
192
THE CHINESE COOK BOOK
SESAMUM-SEED CANDY
/N
GE MAR TONG
1 pound sugar
4 ounces cornstarch
2 handfuls sesamum-seeds
(a) Oil pan well. Pour into it 1 bowl of
water and then the sugar and cornstarch.
Cook until no water is left.
(b) Roll out on a board sprinkled with the
sesamum-seeds. Roll into balls or bars. Let
cool.
Bread, Biscuits
Rolls
WAFFLES
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups milk
2 eggs
1 tablespoon melted shortening
Sift together flour, baking powder and salt; add milk to slightly
beaten egg yolks. Mix well and add to dry ingredients. Add melted
shortening and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs.
Evelyn Leander, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
GRIDDLE CAKES
2 eggs
2 cups flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons sugar
2 cups milk
Butter, size of walnut
Pinch of salt
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs, add milk, stir slowly into
first mixture. Beat batter until perfectly smooth; stir in salt and
melted butter. No grease with aluminum griddle. This recipe is
for about four or five people.
Helen Hoyt, Los Angeles, Cal.
University of California.
GRAHAM PANCAKES
1 cup white flour
1 cup graham flour
Level teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups milk
Heaping teaspoon baking
1 teaspoon sugar
powder
1 egg
Sift flour, salt and baking powder; add milk, sugar and well-beaten
egg. Fry like ordinary pancakes on hot greased griddle. This
serves three.
Bernice Woehler Taylor, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
POP OVERS
1 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 cup milk
2 eggs
1 teaspoon melted butter or fat
Mix salt and flour; add eggs and milk gradually. Beat with egg
beater and turn into hot greased muffin tins and bake in hot oven.
Note: Have oven very hot for first fifteen minutes, then reduce
heat and continue baking about thirty minutes. Makes one dozen.
Charlotte Carpenter, Oakland, Cal.
University of California.
ENTIRE WHEAT MUFFINS
1 cup entire wheat flour
1 cup flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
1 egg
3 tablespoons melted
4 teaspoons baking powder
shortening
Mix dry ingredients; add milk gradually, egg well-beaten and
butter; bake in hot oven in buttered muffin tins about twenty
minutes.
Helen Faull, Alameda, Cal.
University of California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o O K B o O K
3
GRAHAM NUT MUFFINS
1 cup graham flour
2 cups wheat flour
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup nuts
2 cups sour milk
Mix dry ingredients; add butter, nuts and sugar. Beat in two
cups sour milk. Grease and flour pans. Bake in moderate oven
fifteen to twenty minutes.
Mary Fetzer White, Ottumwa, Ia.
Northwestern University.
ENGLISH MUFFINS
Set late the night before, for breakfast next morning, one cake
Fleischmann's yeast, dissolved in three-quarters cup lukewarm
water, one and one-half cups of milk and water, one and one-half
tablespoons sugar, one egg, one and one-half tablespoons melted
butter, one-half teaspoon salt and flour for stiff batter (about four
cups). Mix butter, sugar, salt, egg, milk, yeast, water and flour.
Let rise over night. In the morning, drop from spoon in ungreased
muffin tins and bake in moderate oven. Makes 20.
Helena Olesen, Humboldt, Iowa.
University of Wisconsin.
BRAN GEMS
Sift together:
1 cup bran
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
2 level teaspoons baking
Pinch of salt
powder
1 tabiespoon sugar
Beat one egg with one-half cup sweet milk and a teaspoon of melted
butter and stir into dry ingredients. Bake in hot buttered gem pans
in moderate oven.
Mildred Brown, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
DATE MUFFINS
1/3 cup butter
1/4 cup sugar
1 egg
2 cups pastry flour
3/4 cup milk
3 level teaspoons baking
1/2 teaspoon salt
powder
Scant 1/2 pound dates cut rather fine
Cream butter, add sugar and egg beaten light; sift flour, salt and
baking powder three times. Add these to mixture alternately with
the milk. Beat thoroughly and then add dates. Put in well-buttered
muffin pan and bake in hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Makes
twelve muffins.
Lillian Wilson Vogt, Chicago, III.
University of Illinois.
CORNMEAL MUFFINS
1 cup flour
1 cup cornmeal
2 tablespoons sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons melted fat
Sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs slightly, add milk, fat and combine
with dry ingredients. Bake in greased muffin tin in moderate oven
twenty to twenty-five minutes.
Blanche Bobbitt, Los Angeles, Cal.
University of California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
4
OATMEAL MUFFINS
1 cup milk
2/3 cup rolled oats
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons melted fat
Scald milk and pour over rolled oats; cool and add well-beaten egg,
then salt, flour, sugar and baking powder sifted together, and lastly
melted fat. Beat well, place in muffin tins and bake in a moderate
oven. Makes twelve muffins.
Lois Denman Stubblefield, Bloomington, III.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
ROCK BUNS
2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon ginger
3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons lard
1/3 cup currants
1 egg
1/4 cup milk
Nutmeg
Mix as for baking powder biscuits.
M. Carrol Gumm, Marseilles, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CREAM SCONES
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
3 teaspoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Sift three times. Rub in four rounding tablespoons butter with
tips of fingers. Add two eggs beaten (reserving small amount of
unbeaten white) with one-third cup sweet milk. Toss on floured
board and pat to one-half inch thickness. Brush over with egg
white; sprinkle with sugar; cut and bake fifteen minutes in quick
oven.
Helen Binnie, Kenosha, Wis.
University of Wisconsin.
SCOTCH SHORTBREAD
2 pounds or 8 cups flour
1/2 pound or 1 cup butter
1/2 pound or 1 1/2 cups fruit
1/2 pound or 1 cup butter
or brown sugar.
substitute as Crisco.
Sift flour and sugar; rub in butter until smooth. Roll out three-
quarter inches thick and cut in squares or with fancy cutter. Bake
in a moderate oven.
Irene Madill, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
QUAKER OATS BISCUIT
Take one cup Quaker Oats, over which pour one pint boiling water;
let cool. Add one tablespoon butter and lard, one-half cup molasses,
one level tablespoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one yeast (com-
pressed). Mix with wheat flour as for biscuit. Let rise over night.
Bake in moderate oven.
Katherine Wilson, Evanston, III.
Northwestern University.
DROP CHEESE BISCUITS
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fat
Sift dry ingredients; rub in fat; add milk and grated cheese. Shape
3/4 cup milk
1/2 cup grated cheese
and place on buttered tin and bake in hot oven.
Ethel Lawlor Davis, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
C O L L E G E W o M A N S COO K B O
o K
5
DIXIE BISCUITS
1 cup hot mashed potatoes
1 cup potato water
1 cup cold water
2/3 cup sugar
1 scant cup lard, melted
1 cake Fleischman's yeast
Mix above ingredients; let stand two hours, then add:
1 tablespoon salt
2 well-beaten eggs
Flour to make very stiff dough
Knead well; grease top thoroughly and set in cold place until needed.
Make out biscuits three hours before baking. Make in form of
pocket book rolls. Dough can be kept for several days if kept cold,
and thoroughly greased.
Vina Freitag Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo.
University of Illinois.
PINWHEEL BISCUITS
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons butter or sub-
2/3 cup milk
stitute
1/3 cup finely chopped raisins
1/3 teaspoon cinnamon
or currants
2 tablespoons finely chopped citron
Mix as baking powder biscuit. Roll to one-quarter inch in thick-
ness. Brush over with melted butter. Sprinkle with fruit, sugar
and cinnamon. Roll like jell roll. Cut off pieces three-quarters inch
in thickness. Place on buttered tin and bake twelve minutes in
hot oven. Currants may be substituted for raisins and citron.
Frances House Swan, Livonia, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
MAPLE ROLL BISCUIT
3 cups flour
6 teaspoons baking powder
3 tablespoons melted fat
1 teaspoon salt
Sweet milk to make soft dough
Roll out without much handling about one-half inch thick and
sprinkle thickly with brown sugar and roll up like cinnamon rolls.
Cut the roll in slices one and one-half inches thick and bake one-
half hour in slow oven. Fine with coffee.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
QUICK TEA ROLLS
1 yeast cake
1 cup scalded milk
1/2 cup tepid water
1 tablespoon sugar
3 cups flour
2 tablespoons lard or butter
1 teaspoon salt
Add shortening to milk and let cool until lukewarm. Soften yeast
cake and dissolve sugar in water; combine mixtures. Beat in half
of flour until very smooth; add balance with salt; knead thoroughly.
Roll out, place in pan and let rise two hours. Bake fifteen minutes
in moderate oven.
Lottie B. Crow Porter, Chickasha, Okla.
Brenau College.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
6
PARKER HOUSE ROLLS
2 cups scalded milk
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 yeast cake dissolved in
Flour
1/4 cup luke warm water
Add butter, sugar and salt to the milk when lukewarm; add yeast
and three cups of flour. Beat thoroughly, cool and let rise until
light. Add enough flour to knead. Let rise again, toss on a lightly
floured board, knead and roll out to one-half inch in thickness. Shape
with a biscuit cutter, first dipped in flour. Crease through the
middle, brush over with butter, fold and press together. Place in a
greased pan (one inch apart), cover, let rise and bake in a hot oven
twelve to fifteen minutes.
Doris Morton, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
LUNCHEON ROLLS
1 yeast cake
1 1/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons lard or butter
1 egg
4 cups sifted flour
Scald and cool milk until tepid; add yeast cake and sugar. When
dissolved, add lard and two cups flour. Beat well with spoon. Add
well-beaten egg, salt and remainder of flour. Knead, using as little
flour as possible. Place in greased bowl and let rise two hours or
until light. Form into biscuit size of walnut. Place in greased pan.
Let rise for about one-half hour or until about double size. Brush
over with milk or butter and bake for ten minutes in hot oven. This
will make forty rolls.
Julia Rowley Rogers, Syracuse, N.Y.
Syracuse University.
CINNAMON COFFEE CAKE
2 Pans
1 beaten egg
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon melted butter
Beat the above ingredients together.
1 cup sweet milk or butter-
1/2 teaspoon soda
milk
2 1/2 cups flour
Pinch of salt
If sweet milk is used, use three teaspoons baking powder. Beat
egg, sugar and butter; add milk; lastly, flour sifted with salt and
baking powder. Place on buttered pan and brush top with mixture.
Bake in moderate oven.
Top Mixture
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon melted butter
Mix well.
Mary Clendenin, East Orange, N. J.
Allegheny College.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
7
CINNAMON FLOP
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1 scant cup milk
2 1/2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
Cream butter, add sugar, half the milk, half the flour sifted, then
the remainder of each, then salt and baking powder. Bake in
moderate oven in pan for sheet cake. When partly cold spread with
the following icing:
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup butter
Cinnamon to taste
Cream butter, add sugar and cinnamon.
Jean Curley Wilcox, Baltimore, Md.
Goucher College.
COFFEE CAKE
1 1/2 cups flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
3 tablespoons melted short-
1 egg
ening
1/2 cup milk
2 tablespoons melted short-
1 tablespoon flour
ening
1/2 tablespoon cinnamon
3 tablespoons sugar
Sift first four ingredients together; rub in melted shortening. Beat
egg with milk and stir into above mixture. Put in shallow pan.
Mix well, last four ingredients and spread on dough. Bake twenty
minutes.
Louise Whitmore Arthur, New Haven, N. Y.
Boston University.
QUICK COFFEE CAKE
2 cups sifted flour
1/2 teaspoon soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sugar
1 well beaten egg
1 cup thick sour milk
2 tablespoons melted butter
Cream sugar and butter; add soda dissolved in milk; beaten egg and
flour sifted with spices. Shape, place on buttered pans and spread
with following mixture.
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup chopped nuts
Dot with pieces of butter and bake in moderate oven 20 minutes.
Winifred Montgomery, Marseilles, III.
University of Illinois.
SOUTHERN EGG BREAD
1 cup buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon lard
Cornmeal
Mix all together and add enough cornmeal to make a stiff batter
(about 1,14 cups). Pour into hot, greased muffin tins and bake.
Margaret Thompson Castleberry, Gainesville, Ga.
Brenau College.
CORN BREAD
1 cup white flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cornmeal
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1/4 cup sugar
4 tablespoons melted fat
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk, well beaten eggs and fat.
Bake in greased muffin tins in a hot oven. May be baked in a shallow
pan.
La Beryl Smart, Detroit, Mich.
University of Michigan.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o K B o o K
8
SOUTHERN SPOON CORN BREAD
Add one and one-half teaspoons salt to three cups of boiling water.
Set over hot fire and gradually stir in one-third cup breakfast
hominy. Let cook three or four minutes while stirring, then let cook
undisturbed over boiling water thirty minutes. Add three table-
spoons butter, three-fourths cup milk, three eggs beaten light and
one and one-half cups corn meal sifted with two teaspoons baking
powder. Turn into buttered baking dish and let bake three-fourths
of an hour. Serve while hot with a spoon.
This serves six or seven people.
Virginia Clybourne Norris, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
DATE BREAD
3 cups graham flour
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon soda
2 cups sour milk
1 cup chopped dates
1 cup chopped walnuts
Combine in order mentioned. Beat well and turn into bread pans
and bake in moderate oven for about forty-five minutes.
Makes 2 loaves.
G. T. Paton, Seattle, Wash.
University of Seattle.
GRAHAM BREAD
2 cups graham flour or 1 cup
1 cup white flour
graham flour and 1 cup
1 1/2 cups sour milk
corn meal
1/2 cup molasses
2 level teaspoons soda
Add raisins, nuts or dates
1 level teaspoon salt
according to taste
Mix flours, salt; add milk, then molasses and soda. Raisins or nuts
should be added last. Turn into greased bread pan and bake three-
quarters hour in moderate oven.
Mary Cutting, Kalamazoo, Mich.
University of Michigan.
BROWN BREAD
One cupful sour milk, one-half cup molasses. Mix and add one level
teaspoon baking soda. Stir well and add one-half cupful of sugar,
one well-beaten egg, one-half teaspoon of salt, one and one-fourth
cupfuls graham flour, one and three-fourths cupfuls white flour,
one-half cupful nuts, and one-half cupful raisins. Bake in a slow
oven for one hour.
Catherine Hope, Jefferson City, Mo
University of Missouri.
STEAMED BROWN BREAD
2 1/2 cups graham flour
1 1/2 cups cornmeal
1 cup molasses
2 cups buttermilk
2 teaspoons soda
Dissolve soda in buttermilk. Mix in order named. Steam three
hours.
Stella Meyer, Columbia, Mo.
University of Missouri.
BOSTON BROWN BREAD
1 1/2 cups commeal
1/2 cup molasses
1 1/2 cups graham flour
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups sour milk
Combine ingredients in order named. Beat well and pour into
greased bread pan and bake in moderate oven about one hour.
Helen Murray, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N. S C O o K B
o O K
9
NUT BREAD
4 cups flour
1 cup nuts (chopped)
1 cup sugar
2 cups sweet milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1 teaspoon salt
Sift the dry ingredients together. Add to these the milk. Mix well.
Add the nuts, then the well beaten egg. Pour in buttered pans. Let
stand for 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven for one-half hour.
Gertrude Murray, Ames, Iowa.
Iowa State College.
OATMEAL BREAD
1 cup flour
1 1/2 cups cornmeal
1 teaspoon salt
5 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup cooked oatmeal
2 tablespoons shortening
1 1/4 cups milk
Mix well and turn into greased pans and bake forty to forty-five
minutes.
Evelyn M. Satrum, Buffalo, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
PEANUT BREAD
1 cup salted peanuts, shelled
4 teaspoons baking powder
and ground in meat
4 cups flour
grinder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1 egg
1 1/2 cups milk
Beat well, pour into long, high bread tin and let stand twenty
minutes. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. Slice when a day old.
Good for bread and butter sandwiches.
Alice Mundorf Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
GRAPE-NUT BREAD
1 1/2 cups grape-nuts
2 cups milk
1 cup sugar
Handful raisins
Mix and let stand fifteen minutes.
1 egg
3 1/2 cups bread flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons baking powder
Combine ingredients, and put in bread tins and let stand one and
one-half hours before baking in moderate oven. If sour milk is
used, add two teaspoons soda. The above makes two medium-sized
loaves. Let loaves stand several hours after baking before they are
cut.
Ruth Harrington, Stoneham, Mass.
Boston University.
CORN PONE
3 pints cornmeal (half
Water enough to make stiff
cooked to a mush)
mush
2 teaspoons salt
2 eggs
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fat
1/2 cake yeast
Cook half of cornmeal with water enough for soft mush. Add re-
mainder of cornmeal and cook until a stiff mixture. Add salt, yeast
and sugar and allow mixture to stand over night. In morning
mixture is very light. Add fat and well beaten eggs and bake in
buttered dishes.
Margaret Middlekauf, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
C O L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
10
GLUTEN BREAD
1 pint water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 cake yeast
1 tablespoon butter
5 to 6 cups gluten flour
1/4 cup luke warm water
Add salt and butter to water. Add yeast dissolved in lukewarm
water and sufficient flour to knead. Knead well. Put in bowl,
cover, and set in warm place to rise. When double in bulk, bake
50 minutes in an oven with decreasing heat.
1 cup nut meats may be added to dough just before putting into pans.
Good for people with Diabetes.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, III.
University of Wisconsin.
RUSK
To two cups light bread dough, add nutmeg and work in one
beaten egg. Heat one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon shortening,
one-half cup milk till shortening dissolves. Add flour to make stiff
as biscuit dough. Let rise till very light (four or five hours). Cut
off and shape into biscuits. Let rise again till very light and bake
in moderate oven forty minutes. Brush top with cloth moistened
with equal parts of milk and molasses.
Agnes Inglis, Middletown, Conn.
Wesleyan University
COLLEGE WOMAN S C 0 0 K B O O K
11
Soups
VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT STOCK
1/3 cup carrot
1 quart water
1/3 cup turnip
5 tablespoons of butter
1/2 cup celery
1/2 tablespoon of
1 1/2 cup potato
chopped parsley
1/2 cup onion
Salt and pepper
Wash and scrape small carrot. Cut in quarters, lengthwise; cut strips
thus made in thin slices, crosswise. Wash and pare half a turnip and
cut in slices same as carrot. Wash, pare and cut potatoes in small
pieces; cut celery in quarter inch pieces. Cut onion in thin slices.
Prepare vegetables before measuring. Mix vegetables (except
potatoes), cook 10 minutes in 4 tablespoons of butter, stirring con-
stantly. Add potatoes, cover and cook 2 minutes. Add water and
boil 1 hour. Beat with a fork to break vegetables, add remaining
butter, parsley, salt and pepper.
Ruth S. Hadden, Otisco, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
NOODLE SOUP
(Noodles)
3 eggs
Flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
Brown soup
Beat eggs and add salt. Add flour gradually until a stiff dough is
made. Knead for 15 to 20 minutes. Roll into a sheet as thin as
paper. Cover and allow to stand 30 minutes. Roll down into roll
and cut into strips 1/4 inch wide. Heat soup stock, add noodles to
boiling water and boil for 15 minutes, and then place them in hot
stock and serve.
Opal Wind, Omaha, Nebr.
Iowa State College.
FRENCH ONION SOUP
To chicken soup, add fried onions, 3 or 4 tablespoons of grated
parmesian cheese, bay leaf; cook 1/2 hour. Serve with croutons,
sprinkle with grated cheese on the top.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
University of Wisconsin.
OKRA GUMBO
1 large onion
1 can shrimps
1 pound okra
1 pint oysters
2 cups tomatoes
Salt
6 cups boiling water
Pepper
Paprika
Fry onion in bacon drippings or lard. With this fry the okra cut in
small slices. Cook over slow fire (covered). Add tomatoes and cook
well. Add boiling water, cook one hour. Then add the shrimps and
oysters. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. As soon as oysters
are done, serve gumbo with hot cooked rice.
Chicken may be used in place of shrimps and oysters, but in that
case the chicken must be cut in small pieces and fried before the okra.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
12
CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP
1/2 cup cream
1 tablespoon butter
1 qt. milk
2 tablespoons flour
1/3 lb. mushrooms
Salt, pepper
Place milk and cream in double boiler to heat; grind mushrooms in
food chopper and add to milk; cream butter and flour with a little
of the milk in separate pan and use it to thicken soup. Season to
taste. Cook at least 20 minutes.
Elizabeth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ESAU'S POTTAGE
4 small onions
2 tablespoons shortening
1/8 teaspoon soda
1 quart can tomatoes
1 pint can red kidney beans
1 pint hot milk
Salt and pepper
Chop onions and cook in shortening till yellow. Add beans and
tomatoes. Simmer till soft enough to force through a strainer.
When ready to serve, add soda and hot milk. Season to taste. More
milk may be added if desired.
Vesta B. Simpson, Winnetka, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CORN TOMATO CHOWDER
1/2-inch slice of fat salt pork
1 large onion, chopped
(ground)
1 pint canned corn
1 pint canned tomatoes
1 pint boiling water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 cup (or more) parboiled,
diced potatoes
Cook pork and onion till they are softened and yellowed. Then add
corn, water, and tomatoes. Cover and let simmer about an hour.
Then add potatoes and cook till they are done. When ready, if
too thick, add boiling water or scalded milk.
Vesta B. Simpson, Winnetka, III.
Northwestern University.
LIMA BEAN CHOWDER
1 cup dried baby lima beans
1 small onion
1/2 can tomatoes
1/8 teaspoon soda
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon flour
1 1/2 cups milk
Brown onion in butter. Simmer beans till tender with seasoning.
Make a white sauce of remainder of butter, flour and milk. Heat
all up together till thickened. Add tomatoes and soda just before
serving.
Ethel Bell, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
WASHINGTON CLAM CHOWDER
4 slices bacon
1 small onion
1 medium sized potato
1 tall can minced clams
1 cup rich milk
or 1 cup chopped fresh clams
and nectar
Cut bacon in fine pieces and fry. Add onion and cook slowly, stir-
ring often for six or eight minutes. Peel potato and cut in half-inch
dice. Add to the bacon and onion and pour over two cups boiling
water. Simmer ten minutes or until potato is nearly done. Then
add clams and milk and bring to a boil. Season with salt and pepper.
Add two or three crushed crackers just before serving. Serves
four people generously.
Erminie Lamb, Tacoma, Wash.
University of Washington.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S COO K B o o K
13
MOCK LOBSTER SOUP
1 quart milk
1 slice onion
1 piece bay leaf-parsley
Few shreds lemon
1 cup codfish
2 cups tomatoes
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
Paprika
Salt if necessary
Put milk in double boiler. Parboil codfish and add to milk. Scald
20 minutes and strain off fish. Cook seasoning and tomatoes 20
minutes. Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons flour
and add the milk. Cook until thick. Strain in tomato, add rest of
butter in small bits and some of the codfish if desired.
Mary E. Rowe, Poultney, Vt.
Syracuse University.
BAKED BEAN SOUP
2 cups cold baked beans
3 cups cold water
1 tablespoon onion
2 cups tomatoes
1 teaspoon salt
Spk. pepper
Mix the beans, water, and onion, and simmer the mixture until the
beans are soft. Add the tomato. Rub the mixture through a
strainer, adding more water or tomato to make it the right con-
sistency. Season it, heat it to the boiling point, and serve it with
toasted crackers.
Mildred Mitton, Dorchester, Mass.
Boston University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C 0 0 K B o o K
14
Fish 8 Meats
DEVILED SARDINES
(Chafing Dish)
2 tablespoons oil (drained from
1/2 tablespoon vinegar
sardines)
1 teaspoon lemon juice
3/2 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon paprika
Put the sardines in chafing dish; pour over the above mixture, and
cook, turning frequently. Serve on wafers. Serves twelve.
Selma M. Day, Toronto, Can.
University of Wisconsin.
SHRIMP WIGGLE
(Chafing Dish)
2 cans shrimps
1/2 can tomatoes
1 pint cream
1 tablespoon chopped onion
1 cup cooked rice
Butter, half size of an egg
Cook onion in butter and add tomatoes and rice; when hot add
shrimp cut in thirds. Add cream, season with salt and pepper, and
serve on crackers. Serves ten.
Harriet Kintzley Campbell, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Iowa University.
PILAFFE
(Casserole Dish)
1 cup rice
1 can Campbell's tomato soup
1 lb. Hamburg steak
Salt, pepper
Butter, size of an egg
Strips of bacon
Boil cup of rice twenty minutes; brown Hamburg steak in butter;
mix with rice; add soup, salt and pepper; lay strips of bacon on
top; bake three-quarters of an hour.
Frances Ingalls Shinn, Lawrence, Kansas.
Syracuse University.
SPICED HAM
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup vinegar
Cloves
Boil ham for four hours; remove skin; mix water, vinegar and brown
sugar and pour over ham, then place about a dozen cloves in top
of the ham and bake 1 1/2 hours.
Zula Speece, Bloomington, Illinois.
Illinois Wesleyan.
HAM LOAF
1 pound beef
6 crackers
1 pound smoked ham
3 eggs
Pepper
Grind beef, ham and crackers; add well-beaten eggs and pepper-
no salt. Form into a loaf and bake one hour.
Ruth Anne White, La Fayette, Ind.
De Pauw University.
COLEGE W O M A N S C 0 0 K B O o K
15
PRESSED CHICKEN
Boil a chicken, in as little water as possible, till the bones slip out
and the gristly portions are soft. Remove the skin, pick the meat
apart and mix the dark and white meat. Remove the fat and season
the liquor highly with salt and pepper; also with celery salt and
lemon juice, if you desire. Boil down to one cup and mix with the
meat. Butter a mold and decorate the bottom and sides with
slices of hard-boiled eggs, also with slices of tongue or ham cut
in fancy shapes. Pack the meat in and set away to cool with a
weight on the meat, and when ready to serve, dip mould in warm
water and turn out carefully. Garnish with parsley, strips of lettuce
or celery leaves and radishes or beets.
Marguerite Oatman, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
TAMALE LOAF
1 can tomatoes
1 onion
1 can corn
1 button of garlic
Salt and cayenne pepper to
1 slice butter quarter inch
taste
wide
1/2 cup salad oil
3 teaspoons Grandma Pepper
Sauce
Cook 15 minutes, then add:
1 cup sweet milk
1 1/2 cups yellow corn meal
3 eggs, well beaten
Cook altogether 15 minutes more and then add 1 cup olives (ripe).
Put in greased bread pan. Bake 1 hour. Pour a little olive oil on
top before putting in oven. May be served either hot or cold.
Alice Mundorf Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
MEAT LOAF
Two pounds round steak
1 egg
1/2 pound salt pork
1 cup milk
(Chopped together)
Juice of one lemon
2 cups bread crumbs
Salt, pepper, onion and sage
to taste
Bake slowly 3/4 to 1 hour.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
MEAT LOAF
1 pound hamburger
1 onion
1/2 pound veal
1 can tomatoes
1/2 pound pork
Salt and pepper
8 crackers
Mix all together, using the juice from the tomatoes to moisten with.
This is very good cold.
Merry Mueller Fischer, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
JELLIED VEAL LOAF
3 pounds veal
Juice of 1 lemon
2 hard cooked eggs
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon gelatine
Cook veal until tender, season and chop fine. Dissolve gelatine in
one tablespoon cold water and add seven tablespoons boiling water.
Cool and add veal and egg alternately in mold, pressing well into
corners. Add speck of cayenne pepper to meat stock and pour over
loaf hot. Slice and serve as cold meat or salad.
Kathryn Wilson, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLLEE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
20
STUFFED PORK TENDERLOIN
1 1/2 pounds pork tenderloin
1 1/2 cups fresh bread crumbs
1 tablespoon onion, chopped
1 teaspoon chopped parsley
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon paprika
3 tablespoons melted butter
2 tablespoons water
Mix crumbs, onion, parsley, salt, paprika, butter and water. Place
this mixture on top of the tenderloin which has been flattened out.
Now roll it up and tie with string. Place in buttered baking dish
and add one inch water. Cover with lid and bake in a moderate
oven one hour. Serves four.
Beth Round Harrington, Maquoketa, Iowa.
Northwestern University.
FLANK STEAK
Slice flank steak
Whole onions, peeled
Whole potatoes, peeled
Parboiled macaroni
1 can tomatoes
Brown flank steak in Crisco or bacon fat on top of stove (in skillet).
Then place in roasting pan; add a little water to remaining fat and
pour over meat; surround with potatoes and onions; entirely cover
with macaroni; dot top with tomatoes. Season meat and each
vegetable separately. Roast in oven 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
Beth Menker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
VEAL BIRDS
One pound veal steak. Cut each piece about four inches square.
Fill with dressing and fasten the meat with two toothpicks to
resemble the legs of a bird. Cloves may be used for eyes when
served. Bake in oven for about one hour.
PIGS IN BLANKET
Substitute round steak wound with bacon in above recipe. Cover
with 1/2 cup boiling water and let simmer.
Grace Johnson, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
APPLES ON PORK CHOPS
6 pork chops
3 tablespoons flour
1/4 teaspoon sage
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups cold water
3 tart apples
1/2 cup raisins
1/4 cup brown sugar
1 tablespoon vinegar
Sprinkle the chops with sage and salt and brown them in the frying
pan. Remove to a shallow baking dish. On each place one-half an
apple, pared, cored and filled with brown sugar. Into the fat in
the frying pan put the flour and salt, and when slightly browned
add the water. Bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly, and
add vinegar and raisins. Pour over the chops and bake until apples
are tender.
J. C. McRuer, Toronto, Canada.
University of Toronto.
TURKEY DRESSING
One quart chestnuts put in hot water and boiled until skins are
soft; drain and skin; boil in water until soft; put them through
food chopper and season with:
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon parsley
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon ham, chopped
1/4 teaspoon pepper
Giblets, if you wish
1
teaspoon grated lemon rind 2 tablespoons bread crumbs
2 well-beaten eggs
The above is sufficient for a large turkey.
Selma M. Day, Toronto, Canada.
University of Wisconsin.
CLGE W o M A N S
C
o
o
K
B o o K
21
CHOP SUEY
2 lbs. lean pork, diced
3 tablespoons sorghum molasses
2 cups diced celery
1 cup water or meat stock
1 cup diced onions
1/4 cup chop suey sauce
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons butter
Brown meat in butter quickly; then add celery and onions. Stir
easily for two or three minutes; add molasses, chop suey sauce and
water. Simmer slowly for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Just before
removing from fire add paste made of the flour and water. Mush-
rooms may be added if desired. Serve with rice cooked Southern
style.
Esther Weir, Urbana, III.
University of Illinois.
CHICKEN CHOP SUEY
1 quart diced cooked chicken
3 tablespoons flour
1/4 cup chopped salt pork
3 tablespoons water
1 pt. water or chicken stock
1 tablespoon Chinese sauce
1 onion, chopped
1/2 cup mushrooms
2 cups celery, cut up
If available, 1/2 cup Chinese
1/2 tablespoon salt
water chestnuts and 1 cup
2 tablespoons molasses
bamboo sprouts
Cook meat in the pork fat till brown; add water, onion, celery, salt
and molasses. Simmer 1 hour. Mix flour and water and add to
mixture to thicken. Then add molasses, Chinese sauce and mush-
rooms. Cook 10 minutes.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
University of Wisconsin.
MOCK CHOP SUEY
1 pound beef, cut in small pieces
1/4 pound pork cut in
1 tablespoon butter
small pieces
Brown thoroughly in frying pan; then cover with water and simmer
for 25 minutes; then add:
1 cup chopped celery
1 teaspoon molasses
3 or 4 onions, sliced
1 cup mushrooms
Season and baste. Cook all for 20 minutes longer. Serve with
boiled rice.
Clara Haubold, Gary, III.
Northwestern University.
CHOW MIEN
Cook thoroughly 1 lb. noodles. To this add:
1 lb. bamboo shoots
1 lb. ham, cut in small
1/2 lb. bean sprouts
pieces
1 lb. mushrooms, cut in small 8 eggs, fried on both
pieces
sides and sliced.
Season with 1 cup of Soy Bean Sauce. Mix altogether with the
noodles in an iron fry pan and fry well in peanut oil, or any other
oil if the peanut oil cannot be obtained. This amount will serve 12
people.
Marguerite Oatman, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
SHRIMP A LA CREOLE
Fry a large onion in butter. Add one can shrimps cut fine. Stir two
or three minutes. Add one cup cooked rice. Mix well. Serve with
chili sauce on top.
Charlotte Dines, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
C O L L E G E W O M A N S C 0 0 K B O O K
22
CHOP SUEY
1/2 pound fresh pork shoul-
1/2 pound veal, cut in small
der, cut in small cubes
cubes
Put one tablespoon butter in frying pan and add one-half cup
chopped onions and two cups chopped celery. Let this brown
thoroughly. Then push to one side and brown meat. Add two
tablespoons molasses, two tablespoons chop suey sauce, or one of
Worchestershire sauce and one teaspoon salt, Cook ten minutes.
Then add one-half cup water and let simmer. If it gets too thick
add more water. Thicken with one tablespoon flour.
Chopped mushrooms may be added.
Serve with rice. Serves five people.
Vesta Blodgett Simpson, Winnetka, Ill.
Northwestern University.
TAMALE PIE
3/4 pound ground ham
1 small can tomatoes
burger steak
1 onion
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 cup cornmeal
4 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
Cut onion into small pieces and fry. Add the hamburger. After
the meat has been well-fried add the tomatoes and chili powder
and cook about five minutes. Make a cornmeal mush and cook
about fifteen minutes. Put a quarter of an inch of mush in a well-
greased baking dish, add a layer of hamburger and tomatoes, then
a layer of mush, alternating until the top layer is mush. Bake in
the oven for twenty minutes. Serves six.
Dorothy Meyer, Columbia, Mo.
University of Missouri.
BAKED FISH
Clean fresh fish thoroughly; roll in flour; lay in greased pan and
season inside and out with salt, pepper, and dots of butter.
Make dressing of one quart bread crumbs, one teaspoon salt, pepper
and sage to taste, two hard-boiled eggs sliced, one finely sliced potato,
one finely minced onion, and water enough to mix together.
Lay the dressing around the fish in spoonfuls and add boiling water
enough to cook. Bake in moderate oven one hour.
Helen Bowman, Oran, Mo.
University of Missouri.
VEAL AND TOMATO
2 pounds veal steak
1 can tomatoes
Place veal in baking dish; cover with tomatoes, season with butter,
salt and pepper; and cover top with buttered bread crumbs. Bake
one and one-half hours.
Kathryn Wilson, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CRAB TOAST
2 tablespoons butter
1 pint crab meat
1 tablespoon flour
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon mustard, salt,
1 hard cooked egg
pepper
3/4 cup milk
Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk and seasonings in double
boiler. Add lemon juice, diced egg and crab meat. Mix well and
serve on toast.
Muriel Durgin, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
23
WELSH RAREBIT
1/4 pound cheese (grated)
Cayenne
1/4 cup milk or cream
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon mustard
2 teaspoons butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
Put cheese, milk into a double boiler. Mix mustard, salt, and
cayenne; add egg and beat well. When cheese is melted, stir in
egg mixture and butter and cook until it thickens.
Serve on hot toast.
Sidonie Sewald Larrance, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
TOMATO RAREBIT
1/2 cup tomato pulp
2 tablespoons flour
Pinch soda
1/2 cup grated cheese
1/2 cup milk
4 slices toast
Heat tomato pulp, add soda, then milk. When hot, thicken with
flour to which enough cold water has been added to make a smooth
paste. Add grated cheese and stir until smooth. Serve on toast.
The flavor may be varied by cooking a little onion and green pepper
with the tomatoes before putting through the sieve.
Ethel Frank Holcombe, Chesterton, Ind.
De Pauw University.
SARDINE RAREBIT
2 tablespoons butter (melted)
2 teaspoons mustard
1/4 teaspoon paprika
teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
6 sardines well boned and
1 cup mild cheese
cut up
Melt butter, add two teaspoons mustard; paprika, and salt and
blend well. Add one cup milk (or half milk and half cream) and
cook for two minutes, stirring well; add cheese cut up, stir well,
then add sardines (cut up) and serve hot on buttered toast.
Grace Phillips, Elgin, Ill.
University of Illinois.
OYSTER RAREBIT
1 cup oysters
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 pound milk cheese cut in
2 eggs
small pieces
Few grains of cayenne
Melt butter, add cheese and seasoning. As cheese melts, add
gradually oyster liquid and eggs (slightly beaten). When mixture
is smooth, add soft part of oysters from which tough muscle has
been removed. Serve hot on toast.
Sadie MacDowell, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
CHEESE SOUFFLE
2 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup scalded milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
Sprinkle cayenne
1/4 cup grated cheese (Amer-
Yolks 3 eggs
ican)
Whites 3 eggs
Melt butter, add flour, mix well. Scald milk gradually and add
cheese and seasonings. Remove from fire. Add well beaten egg
yolks. Cool mixture before folding in stiffly beaten egg whites.
Turn into buttered baking dish, place in a pan of warm water and
bake in moderate oven until firm.
Elizabeth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o O K
27
DRIED BEEF RAREBIT
1 cup chipped dried beef
3/4 cup tomatoes
1/2 cup grated or chopped
4 eggs
cheese
2 tablespoons butter
Melt butter in frying pan, add chipped beef and allow to crisp.
Pour in tomatoes and heat thoroughly, add cheese and stir until
melted. Break eggs into mixture and stir until thick. Serve hot
on crisp crackers.
Gladys Parks Dennis, Versailles, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
SAVORY TOAST
2 cups canned tomatoes
1/2 onion, sliced
1 cup water
3 tablespoons flour
2 cloves
1/2 teaspoon mustard
3 allspice berries
2 teaspoons salt
3 peppercorns
Dash cayenne pepper
2 sprays parsley
1/4 pound cheese
2 tablespoons fat
1 egg
8 slices toast
In a covered saucepan simmer the tomatoes in water, cloves, all-
spice, berries, peppercorn, and parsley for at least fifteen minutes.
Brown the onion in the fat, and add the flour, mustard, salt, and
cayenne which have been previously mixed. Mix well before adding
the tomatoes. As soon as the mixture reaches the boiling point,
strain and stir while adding the cheese, until the latter is perfectly
blended. Beat the egg, add a part of the hot tomato mixture and
mix thoroughly; repeat until all the tomato has been used. Stir
and cook over hot water till egg thickens mixture. Serve on toast
at once.
Ruth Anne White, La Fayette, Ind.
De Pauw University.
RICE OMELET WITH PEAS
2 eggs
1 tablespoon fat
1 cup cooked rice
1 cup peas (at least)
Heat and season peas with salt, pepper and a teaspoon of sugar.
Beat whites and yolks well, separately. Mix the rice with half a
teaspoon of salt through the yolks, then fold in whites.
Melt fat in a hot omelet pan. Cook in moderate oven till egg is
done. Score through center and fold and pour hot peas around it.
Marie Bellinghausen, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHEESE BALLS
1 cup mild creamy cheese
1/2 cup bread crumbs
1 egg
Pepper Dash salt
To cheese add bread crumbs, salt, pepper and the well beaten egg.
Mix well and roll into small balls.
Roll these in fine cracker crumbs
and just before serving place in a wire basket and fry in deep fat
till they are a delicate brown. Serve with salads.
Birdie Bruns, Dayton, Ohio.
De Pauw University.
HOT CHEESE CAKES
1
pound grated cheese 1 heaping teaspoon baking
(sharp American)
powder
2 egg whites (stiffly beaten)
1 cup cream
Paprika
Worcestershire sauce if liked
Beat all together and spread on slices of bread. Place on broiler
and toast a light brown. Serve very hot.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S B o o K
28
FOAMY OMELET
2 eggs
1 tablespoon milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon butter
Beat egg yolks until light; add seasonings and milk. Beat whites
very stiff and cut into yolks. Put into buttered pan and cook over
low flame. Do not remove cover from dish during first five min-
utes of cooking or omelet will be heavy. When set, remove lid and
put in hot oven to brown top. Serve at once.
Viola Michel, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
SWISS EGGS
6 eggs
1 onion, cut in small pieces
1 cup tomato soup
1 green pepper, cut fine
or canned tomatoes
(Thyme, savory, salt, to
taste)
Warm tomatoes, onion, pepper, herbs in pan. Beat eggs and fold
in mixture. Will serve four or five people. Bake in moderate oven.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wisconsin University.
EGG CHOPS
4 eggs
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon butter
Salt
2 tablespoons flour
Pepper
Onion juice
Hard cook four eggs. Make a thick white sauce of the other in-
gredients; add the eggs, chopped up. Shape into eight patties with
the hands, set in ice box to stand for several hours. Then fry in
deep fat, or saute in lard or butter.
Add one cup of cold cooked macaroni cut small to make it go farther
when eggs are scarce.
Margaret Chase Schmidt, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CREAMED CELERY IN CHEESE SHELL
3 cups cooked celery
1/2 cup cracker crumbs
1 pint white sauce
2 tablespoons melted butter
Cut the cleaned celery stalks in pieces, one inch long, and let cook
in boiling water to cover until tender. For three cups of pieces,
make one pint of white sauce, using the water in which the celery
was cooked, with cream as the liquid. Turn into the shell of an
Edam cheese, cover the top with cracker crumbs mixed with melted
butter and let brown in the oven. Serve a light scraping of cheese
with each serving of celery.
Barbard Wentch, Ames, Iowa.
Iowa State College.
CHEESE AND CORN SOUFFLE
2 cups scalded milk
2 tablespoons chopped
1 cup boiled corn
green pepper
1 cup stale bread crumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cheese, grated
3 eggs
1 tablespoon fat
1 tablespoon catsup
Mix first seven ingredients and catsup; add well-beaten yolks of
eggs, fold in stiffly beaten whites. Bake in well greased baking dish
for twenty minutes in moderate oven. Serve at once.
Grace Pugh, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wisconsin University.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B O o K
29
Vegetables
CANDIED SWEET POTATOES
6 medium sized sweet potatoes
4 tablespoons butter
2 large sour apples
Salt
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/4 cup water
Parboil, peel and cut the potatoes into slices. Cover the bottom of a
buttered baking dish with a layer of sliced potatoes. Sprinkle with
brown sugar and dot with pieces of butter and a few grains of salt.
Add a layer of thinly sliced pealed apple. Alternate potatoes and
apples, adding butter and sugar until materials are used. Add water.
Cook in oven until apples are mushy. (Serves six.)
Mildred Newman Neasmith, Buffalo, N. Y.
Syracuse University
MARSHMALLOW SWEET POTATO
Boil sweet potatoes, peel, mash; add seasoning and butter. Put in
buttered baking dish; cover top with marshmallows and place in
oven until marshmallows are melted; then put under flame and
brown.
Charlotte Dines, Evanston, Ill.
Norhwesern University.
CORN FRITTERS
1 egg beaten light
2 tablespoons flour
1 cup corn
1/2 teaspoon baking
Salt and pepper to taste
powder
Add
corn to egg; sift together flour and baking powder and add to
corn mixture fry in deep fat.
Mary Jane Weir Colmey, Kirkwood, Mo.
University of Illinois.
EGGPLANT FRITTERS
Wash a medium sized eggplant and cook in salted water until soft.
Make a fritter batter of
1 1/3 cups flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
2/3 cup milk
1 egg
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk gradually and egg well-
beaten. Mash eggplant and remove large pieces of skin. Add warm
eggplant to batter and beat mixture until thoroughly mixed. Fry
either in deep fat or in a large amount of fat in a frying pan.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, III.
University of Wisconsin.
STUFFED EGGPLANT
(Southern Style)
1 eggplant
1 egg, beaten
1 small onion, chopped fine
1 tablespoon butter
2 or 3 tablespoons bread crumbs
1 teaspoon salt
Scoop out eggplant and soak in salt water one hour. Pour off water
and parboil 1/2 hour. Mix with egg, butter, salt, onion and bread
crumbs and refill shell. Bake in pan with a little water 30 to 40
minutes.
Elizabeth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, III.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
30
BAKED ASPARAGUS
1 bunch fresh asparagus
1/3 teaspoon pepper
1 cup soft bread crumbs
2 tablespoons butter
1/3 cup dried buttered crumbs
2 tablespoons flour
2 cups milk
4 hard cooked eggs
1/4 cup grated cheese
1 teaspoon salt
Boil or steam asparagus until tender; drain and cut in 1-inch pieces.
Make a sauce of butter, flour, milk, seasonings and crumbs. Put a
layer of asparagus in bottom of casserole; add sauce and hard
cooked eggs, chopped. Repeat until dish is filled. Sprinkle with
dried buttered crumbs, mixed with the cheese. Bake about 20
minutes in moderate oven.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
CREOLE SPAGHETTI
1 large pkg. Red Cross Spaghetti
1/4 cup melted butter
Boil together 2 onions, 1 lb.
1 can tomatoes
chopped beef
Salt and paprika
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
Cook 3/4 of an hour; last five minutes add 1 large can mushrooms if
desired. Mix with spaghetti. Put on platter. Sprinkle with cheese.
Put in oven till cheese is melted. Serves eight.
Ella Brown, Evanston, Illinois.
Northwestern University.
MACARONI CROQUETTES
4 tablespoons grated cheese 1/2 cup chopped ham
2 cups boiled macaroni (chop)
Mix with sauce. Pour on buttered platter and let cool several
hours. Cut into squares and fry in deep fat.
Sauce
1 teaspoon butter
1 teaspoon flour
1/3 cup sweet milk
Cook until thick and season. (Serves four.)
Frances Morris, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH
TOMATO SAUCE
1 package of macaroni or
1/4 pound of bacon (cut fine)
spaghetti
1 onion (cut fine)
1 green pepper (cut fine)
1 small can of tomatoes
Pinch of sugar
Salt and pepper to taste
1 tablespoon flour
1 tablespoon butter
Cook macaroni or spaghetti in rapidly boiling salted water until
tender; drain, rinse in cold water and drain again. In another pan
fry the finely cut bacon; add the onions and green pepper and fry
again. Add the tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste, and sugar to
this mixture and let come to a boil. When boiling add to it a gravy
made of the flour, butter and sufficient water to make it smooth.
Pour this mixture made in the frying pan over the macaroni or
spaghetti. (Serves eight.)
Myrtle Meyer, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
SPANISH RICE
Fry several minutes in casserole two tablespoons rice, one onion
sliced and two tablespoons butter. Add one pint of tomatoes and
one green pepper and season. Bake until rice is soft.
Virginia Stevenson Mershon, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Syracuse University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
31
MACARONI LOAF
1 cup hot milk, over
1 cup bread crumbs
1 cup cooked macaroni cut
1 cup grated cheese
fine (or Creamettes)
1 green pepper cut fine or
Little onion juice
put through grinder
Salt
3 well beaten eggs
Bake in a pan set in another pan of hot water, as for custards. Pimen-
toes and parsley may be added if desired. Serve with tomato
sauce or mushroom sauce.
Eliza Dickey Manning, Wayzata, Minn.
University of Minnesota,
STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS
10 good sized peppers with
2 large ears of corn
tops cut off
1 onion
4 medium-sized tomatoes
Handful of bread crumbs (or
1 green pepper
more according tomois-
1 tablespoon butter
ture)
Season to suit taste with pepper and salt
Chop the onions, tomatoes and pepper fine. Add 1/3 pound of
Hamburg steak (or leftover roast) to the chopped ingredients and
mix all together. Make about the consistency of turkey dressing.
Serve with tomato sauce, grated cheese, and ripe olives.
Alice M. Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
VEGETABLE LOAF (LEFTOVERS)
Essentials
1 cup cooked tomatoes
1 egg
1 teaspoon each salt and sage
1 cup uncooked sausage (14
And onion if desired
pound)
Add any other leftovers you happen to have, such as cooked pota-
toes, carrots, peas, beans or moistened stale bread. Enough to fill
a loaf tin. Bake about one hour.
Vesta B. Simpson, Winnetka, III.
Northwestern University.
BOSTON ROAST
Cook two cups dry kidney beans until tender, or use one can of
kidney beans. Chop beans, add one cup bread crumbs, two cups
grated cheese, one tablespoon onion. Salt to taste. Bake with slices
of bacon on top of loaf until firm. Baste occasionally with hot
water and fat. Serve with tomato sauce.
TOMATO SAUCE
Heat one can tomatoes and one teaspoon minced onion. Rub
through sieve. Melt one tablespoon fat, add two tablespoons flour
and seasoning of one teaspoon salt and pepper. Add tomato, cook
ten minutes.
Eleanor Svoboda, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
CREAMED CAULIFLOWER WITH HAM
1 head of cauliflower
3 well beaten eggs
2 cups of white sauce
3/4 cup of finely chopped
cooked ham
Trim the cauliflower and boil it in boiling salted water until it is
tender; drain and rub through a sieve. Add the eggs and one cup-
ful of the white sauce to the cauliflower and pour the mixture into
a buttered mold. Bake until firm. Turn out on a hot, flat dish,
cover with remainder of the sauce and sprinkle over with the ham.
Louise Brownell, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
32
BEANS A LA TOMATO
1 pint navy beans
1 tablespoon' sugar
1 pint tomatoes
1 onion
1 cup cream
Salt
Pepper
Pour off most of the water after cooking beans. Add other ingre-
dients, salt and pepper to taste. Cook all together till onion is
tender. Brown in oven. (Serves six.)
Vesta Knott Larrimore, Tipton, Ind.
De Pauw University.
GREEN STRING BEANS
(A LA SOUTHERN)
String, snap and wash beans. Put beans in kettle, salt, cover with
water and strips of bacon. Add three or four medium sized onions
and boil for two hours, or until beans are very tender. Beans are
best when cooked very slow but need to be watched carefully.
Marion Spangler, Bradford, Pa.
Allegheny College.
CORN TAMALE
1 can corn
1/2 can tomatoes
1 cup yellow cornmeal
1 teaspoon Grandma's pep-
1 bottle stuffed olives
pers (spice)
1 cup milk
1 clove garlic
Salt to taste
Mix and bake one hour in moderate oven.
Rita Benedict, Lodi, Calif.
University of California.
SQUASH MASH
Beat two or three eggs. Stir into eggs, one cup grated cheese, a little
garlic, parsley, and green pepper chopped fine. Add a slice of soaked
bread, a little sweet marjoram, one tablespoon olive oil, and salt.
To this add squash after it has been boiled tender. Bake in drip-
ping pan until brown.
A good way to serve the leftover vegetables.
Alice M. Johns, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
VEGETABLE CHOP SUEY
1 cup spaghetti
1 can tomatoes
1 large onion
1/2 cup celery
1/2 cup meat-fresh or left-overs
Boil spaghetti in salted water until tender. Drain and rinse with
cold water. Add to remainder of mixture, which has been prepared
in meantime. Put in buttered baking dish and bake one-half hour.
Stuffed olives are a good addition. (Serves four.)
Winifred Montgomery, Marseilles, III.
University of Illinois.
FRIED TOMATOES
Wash and cut in half six ripe unpeeled tomatoes. Place in frying
pan, cut-side up. Season each tomato with 1/2 teaspoonful sugar and
salt and pepper. Put a little water in bottom of pan and boil slowly
until tomatoes are tender. Then remove tomatoes to a platter and
boil down juice until brown. Add four level tablespoons butter,
four level tablespoons flour, and two cups of milk. Make like cream
sauce, and pour over tomatoes and serve.
Margaret Dow, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o O K B O o K
33
Salads E Dressings
GOOD SALAD TO SERVE WITH BAKED FISH
2 oranges (cut into small sections)
1/2 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup boiled salad dressing
Josephine Eddy, Evanston, III.
Michigan Agriculture College.
TUNA FISH SALAD
Six or eight potatoes diced, one can tuna fish, one cup chopped
celery, add little cucumber, three tablespoons chopped green pepper
or parsley, moisten with mayonnaise. Season to taste. Serve on
cup shaped leaves of lettuce. Garnish with radish roses.
Ethel Krauter Bell, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
TOMATO TUNA FISH SALAD
1 envelope gelatine, soaked in 1/2 cup cold water
2 tablespoons vinegar
Pint can tomatoes
Salt tomatoes and boil for ten minutes. Add gelatine and vinegar.
When dissolved strain. When chilled enough that it begins to set,
add small can of Tuna fish, flaked. Mix thoroughly and pour into
mold dipped in cold water. Serve on lettuce with salad dressing.
Ruth M. Bielby, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
SALMON SALAD
1 can salmon
1/2 cup celery
1/2 cup olives
1/2 tablespoons onion juice
3 hard cooked eggs
1/2 cup English walnuts
Use
a
cooked dressing. Mix everything just before adding salmon.
Do this by tossing the materials with a fork. Be careful that pieces
of salmon are not too fine or mushy. Serve on lettuce leaves.
Jessie Richman, Villa Grove, III.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
MOULDED SALMON SALAD
1 can or 1 cup salmon
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup milk
1/2 tablespoon mustard
1/4 cup vinegar
Cayenne
1 1/2 tablespoons gelatine
1/4 cup cold water
Make soft custard of milk, eggs, dry ingredients and vinegar.
Soften gelatine in cold water and dissolve in custard. Add salmon.
Mould, chill and serve with mayonnaise.
Irene Madill, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
CRAB SALAD LOAF
1 cup crab meat
1 cup whipping cream
1 cup cabbage
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1 cup celery
1 tablespoon gelatine
Cut
up crab meat into small pieces. Chop celery and cabbage.
Whip the cream and add the mayonnaise and gelatine which has
been dissolved over hot water. Combine with celery, cabbage and
crab. Place in wet mold and chill thoroughly. Serve on lettuce
leaves.
Margaret Stout Keeley, Tillamook, Ore.
University of Minnesota.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
38
SALMON LOAF WITH CUCUMBER SAUCE
(Excellent Summer Dish)
Soak 3/4 tablespoon gelatine in 2 tablespoons cold water and stir
this into 2 tall cans of salmon-flaked Make the following boiled
dressing and stir into the above and then pour into loaf tin to set:
1 tablespoon sugar
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
Yolks of 2 raw eggs
2 tablespoons flour
1/4 cup vinegar
1 teaspoon dry mustard
Dash of paprika
CUCUMBER SAUCE
Whip 1 bottle cream, add salt and paprika Gradually stir in 2
tablespoons vinegar and 1/2 cucumber which has been diced and
drained.
Margaret Chase Schmidt, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CRAB SALAD
Remove meat from two fresh crabs leaving pieces as large as possible.
For dressing take one cup of mayonnaise to which add:
1/4 cup of catsup
1/4 teaspoon prepared mus-
1/2 cup minced celery
tard
1/4 cup minced green peppers
1/4 teaspoon horseradish
Mix well and pour over crab meat. Garnish with fresh tomatoes
and hard cooked eggs.
Leah Kahn, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
SHRIMP SALAD
Prepare shrimps by cutting into small pieces. Add one-half cup
cold peas, one-half cup celery cut fine. Mix well with mayonnaise
and serve on lettuce.
Mabel Osborne, Pasadena, Calif.
University of Southern California.
TOMATO SALAD
1 pint canned tomatoes
1 large tablespoon gelatine
Salt and red pepper
1/2 cup finely chopped cel-
1 cup chopped white grapes
ery
and nutmeats
1 green pepper, shredded
Stew and strain tomatoes. Season with salt and red pepper. Add
other ingredients and mold. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise
dressing.
Thorborg Swenson, Rockford, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
SHAMROCK SALAD
(Six Servings)
3 green peppers
6 stuffed olives
1 cup cream cheese
Lettuce
Stuff well washed and scraped peppers with cheese seasoned and
mixed with chopped olives. Chill one hour. Cut in slices, serving
three or four on each leaf of lettuce.
Ruth Kennish, Kewanee, Ill.
Iowa State College.
BEET AND CELERY SALAD
Boil and pickle four medium sized beets. Clean one large bunch of
celery. Dice beets and celery together. Mix with salad dressing.
Serve on lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with nuts. Serves six.
Edith V. Grupe, Buffalo, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o O K B o o K
39
JEWEL SALAD
1/2 envelope gelatine, soaked in 1/4 cup cold water.
Pare, chop and drain cucumber. There should be 1/2 cup. Chop
and drain 1/2 cup pineapple. Add gelatine, dissolved in 1/4 cup
boiling water. Then add following ingredients:
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar
1/4 cup vinegar
(may be omitted)
2/3 cup pineapple syrup
1 tablespoon lemon juice
Few grains salt
Turn into individual molds, dipped in cold water. Chill. Serve on
lettuce leaf with salad dressing.
Edith Crounse Kolb, Bethlehem, Pa.
Syracuse University.
ARGYLE SALAD
(Apricot)
Dressing:
4 egg yolks beaten
1 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons vinegar
1 teaspoon mustard
1 teaspoon butter
1 tablespoon sugar
Little red pepper
Mix together in double boiler and cook for five minutes after it
begins to thicken. Stir constantly. When cool add one cup whipped
cream, twelve marshmallows cut fine and one-half cup cut pecans.
Drain one can of apricots. Arrange halves on lettuce leaves and
serve with above dressing. This serves eight.
Bernice Woehler Taylor, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
BLACK CHERRY SALAD
1 can black cherries
Small quantity of blanched
Small bottle pimento stuffed
almonds
olives
2 boxes lemon jello.
Take juice from cherries, add enough water to make a quart of
liquid. Bring this to boiling point and dissolve jello in it. Cool,
add pitted cherries, olives sliced in thin slices and the half almonds.
Pour in shallow pan and when cold cut in squares and serve on
lettuce with salad dressing.
Patra M. Houg, Princeton, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
PRUNE SALAD
Large prunes
Chopped nuts
Creamed cheese
Lettuce
Mayonnaise or oil dressing
Stuff prunes with creamed cheese and nuts. Serve in lettuce nests
with desired dressing.
Gladys Becker Murphy, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
FROZEN SALAD
3/4 pound green grapes
1 teaspoon Knox gelatine
1/4 pound English walnuts
1 tablespoon sugar
1/3 pound almonds
1/2 pint maraschino cherries
1 cup salad dressing
1 piece orange peel to taste
Method: Cut fine the seeded grapes, cherries and nut meats.
Grind oranges and a small piece of citron. Dissolve gelatine; whip
cream and add to salad dressing and fruit mixture. Put in mould.
Let it stand four hours. (Put piece of oil paper in mould as it helps
to get it out.)
Helen G. Burgert, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Coe College.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B O O K
42
CHERRY SALAD
1 package lemon jello
1 cup chopped celery
1 quart can red cherries
Small bottle pimento olives
1/2 cup broken black walnuts
Mix one pint heated cherry juice with the jello (or cherry juice and
water); when beginning to harden add two cups strained cherries,
walnuts, one cup celery and pimento olives sliced. Put in indi-
vidual molds. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise and whipped
cream on top.
Margaret Middlekauf, Chicago, III.
University of Wisconsin.
NIPPY SALAD
1 package lemon jello
1 stalk celery
2 dill pickles
1/2 cup English walnut meats
1 apple
1/2 pint mayonnaise
Cut
jello in squares, place on a lettuce leaf on a salad plate. Cut
up pickles, apple and celery. Mix together and put a couple of
teaspoonfuls around the jello. Put on mayonnaise and sprinkle
nut meats on the top.
Florence Chestnutt, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
SALAD
Slice top from large red apple and scoop out the pulp. Mix with
finely chopped celery, broken walnut meats, and mayonnaise made
without mustard. Fill apple shells, put on lids, serve on lettuce
leaves.
Leonore Berlin, Coudersport, Pa.
Allegheny College.
DATE SALAD
1 pound dates
1 cup chopped apples
3 oranges
1 cup chopped celery
1 head lettuce
Fruit salad dressing
Clean and stone dates, cut in thin strips; mix apples, celery and
half dates with dressing, place the sliced orange on shredded lettuce,
spread evenly with apple and celery mixture, continue until all is
used, and top with dressing, and garnish with the rest of the dates.
Margaret Brainard, Brookline, Mass.
Boston University.
PINEAPPLE SALAD
1 can sliced pineapple
English walnuts
Dates
Maraschino cherries
Whipped cream
Put lettuce on plate, then a slice of pineapple, three dates which
have been stuffed with walnut meats and rolled in powdered sugar.
Cover with whipped cream and put a cherry on top.
Ruth Palmer, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
FLUFFY SALAD
Cabbage
3 dozen marshmallows
2 cups shredded pineapple
1/2 pint of whipped cream
6 tablespoons mayonnaise
Salt six cups of shredded cabbage to taste, add two cups of shredded
pineapple. Stir in the whipped cream to which the mayonnaise has
been added.
Aloha Mehl Carlin, Goshen, Ind.
De Pauw University.
C O L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
43
BUTTERFLY SALAD
Take one slice of pineapple cut in half, lay on lettuce leaf so the two
rounded sides meet in middle. Take a seeded date and use for
body and broken Trilby sticks or orange peel for feelers. Put
sliced stuffed olive on each corner of wings. Put a spoonful of
salad dressing between feelers for the honey.
Florence Brownell De Yarman, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
TWENTY-FOUR HOUR SALAD
1 large can sliced pineapple
Yolks of 4 eggs
1/2 pound marshmallows
1/2 pint cream
1 pound almonds (in shell)
1/2 pint whipping cream
blanched
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons of sugar
Place over fire in a double boiler one-half pint of ordinary cream.
When partially heated, add the well beaten yolks of four eggs,
pinch of salt and two tablespoons of sugar. When thick, remove
from fire and set aside to cool.
While this custard is cooling, drain the juice from the pineapple and
cut the fruit into long slices. To the cut up pineapple add the cut
almonds and marshmallows (each cut in six pieces).
Fold pineapple, almonds and marshmallows together with a fork.
Then pour over this mixture the cold custard. When thoroughly
mixed, fold in one-half pint of whipped cream.
A tablespoon of lemon may be added if you prefer.
Set in a cool place until the next day, or you can make it in the morn-
ing and put it in the ice-box until evening.
This serves from twelve to fifteen persons.
Clotilde Paulson Walstad, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
CANDLE SALAD
Place a slice of pineapple on a nest of lettuce leaves. Slice a banana
into four parts lengthwise, and stick one section upright in the
hole in the center of each piece of pineapple. Shake a spoonful of
mayonnaise and whipped cream mixed over the top of the banana
to represent the wax of the candle running down. Then on the very
top place a maraschino cherry for the light.
Doris Dyer, Portland, Me.
Boston University.
CRANBERRY SALAD
2 cups cranberries
2 cups sugar
Cook five minutes
Dissolve one package lemon jello in 1/4 cup boiling water. Pour
together the cooked cranberry and jello. Add one cup chopped
celery; nuts. Cool and serve with salad dressing.
Helen G. Burgert, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
CALIFORNIA FRUIT SALAD
2 large slices of pineapple
1/2 can wax cherries
3 halves of pears
3/4 pound marshmallows
3 halves of peaches
1/2 pint maraschino cherries
1 orange
1 head lettuce
1 grapefruit
1 pint whipped cream
Dice pineapple, pears, peaches, orange, grapefruit, and wax cher-
ries and mix thoroughly. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with
whipped cream, maraschino cherries and marshmallows. Color
scheme is red, buff and green and makes an attractive salad.
Margaret Calder Leib, Baltimore, Md.
Goucher College.
C L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
44
CANTALOUPE SALAD, A LA MEXICAN STYLE
2 cantaloupes
1/2 saltspoon cinnamon
Salt
1 pint double cream
Paprika
1 teaspoonful gelatine
1/4 cup bread crumbs
Cut the edible portions of the cantaloupes into small pieces. Sprinkle
with seasonings. Add the cream beaten very stiff, to which the
dissolved gelatine has been added. Beat well until thoroughly mixed.
When it begins to set turn into melon mold, which has been wet in
cold water. Bury in ice and salt for at least two hours. When ready
to serve wipe the mold with a cloth wet in cold water, and turn on
a bed of lettuce, surrounded with a very delicate, pink mayonnaise.
Emily M. Brown, Honesdale, Pa.
Syracuse University.
ORANGE PEANUT SALAD
1 banana
1/2 cup peanuts
2 oranges
Lettuce
French dressing
Remove skin from banana; scrape, and cut in quarters (lengthwise),
and thirds (crosswise), and roll in peanuts, finely chopped. Pare
oranges, cut in slices (crosswise); stamp out center, and insert a
piece of banana through each slice. Arrange on bed of lettuce,
and serve with French dressing.
Gladys Duvall, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
MAYONNAISE DRESSING
1 teaspoon mustard
Yolks of 2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon powdered sugar
2 tablespoons vinegar
Sprinkle of cayenne pepper
1 1/2 cups olive oil
or paprika
Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks and when well mixed, add 1/2 tea-
spoon vinegar. Add oil gradually (drop by drop), beating constantly.
As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar or lemon juice. Add oil and
vinegar alternately, until all is used, beating constantly.
Note: Dressing will separate if oil is added too rapidly. A smooth
consistency may be restored by taking another egg yolk and slowly
adding curdled mixture to it or by adding the curdled mixture very
slowly to ice water (one teaspoon to one tablespoon-depending on
degree of separation of dressing). Any salad oil may be substituted
for olive oil.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING
2 egg yolks
2 blades chives or a little
1 pint salad or olive oil
onion juice
Small bottle olives
Vinegar
2 canned red pimentos
Salt
2 hard boiled eggs
Paprika
Put egg yolks in bowl and beat with either fork or egg beater. Then
add oil a few drops at a time beating constantly. When all the oil
is used this mixture should be very thick. Then add vinegar to the
consistency of whipped cream. Add salt and paprika to taste.
Then add other ingredients-olives, pimentos, eggs and chives,
all chopped very fine.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E WOANS C 0 0 0 B o o K
45
POPULAR "COOKED" MAYONNAISE
Make a white sauce of one cupful water, 1/3 cupful flour, one table-
spoonful salad oil. Cook thoroughly (about thirty minutes) in a
double boiler. Place in a bowl
1 egg or 2 egg yolks
1 teaspoonful mustard
1 teaspoonful salt
1/8 teaspoonful paprika
Mix the seasonings thoroughly with the egg yolks. Add 1/4 cupful
of vinegar slowly to the mixture. Pour one cupful of oil over this
mixture; do not stir. Then pour the hot white sauce over this mix-
ture. Beat with an egg beater or wire whisk for three to five min-
utes. Serve as you would the regular mayonnaise.
Note: Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls of
cider vinegar may be substituted for the 1/4 cup of vinegar.
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, III.
University of Wisconsin.
EGYPTIAN SALAD DRESSING
1 cup cooked salad dressing
1 hard cooked egg, diced or
1/2 cup olive oil
sliced
1/2 cup Heinz chili sauce
Dash of paprika
2 or 3 tablespoons chopped
green peppers
Add olive oil gradually to cooked dressing; then add chili sauce,
peppers, egg and paprika. A good dressing for head lettuce and
serves from four to six persons.
Carro Buchanan Musberger, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Wisconsin.
FRENCH DRESSING
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon vinegar
1/2 teaspoon paprika
3 tablespoons olive oil
Mix ingredients and stir until well blended.
Mildred Hadley Baker, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
SALAD DRESSING (Boiled)
1 tablespoon mustard
1/4 teaspoon white pepper
4 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup vinegar
6 tablespoons sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups hot milk
Mix dry ingredients in order given, add vinegar, beaten eggs and
milk. Cook in double boiler until thick. When ready to use, thin
with cream.
Marguerite Rickert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
SALAD DRESSING
2 cups sour milk or cream
1 teaspoon mustard
4 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar to 1 cup
1 teaspoon pepper
cream
Beat eggs and cream. Cook in double boiler until thick. Remove
from fire, cool and add 1/4 cup vinegar to every cup sour cream used.
Genevieve Betts, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
ONE MINUTE SALAD DRESSING (Uncooked)
2 eggs
1 teaspoon dry mustard
1/2 cup melted butter
1 can Leder or Eagle Brand
Salt
condensed milk
1 cup vinegar
Directions: Beat eggs well, add butter, salt, mustard, milk, and then
vinegar. Beat well.
LaBeryl Smart, Detroit, Mich.
University of Michigan.
C o L L E G E W O M A N S C o o K B o o K
46
ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING
(For Salads)
6 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons vinegar or
1/2 teaspoon paprika
lemon juice
1 tablespoon finely chopped
Roquefort cheese
Stir well. or pour ingredients into a bottle, cork, and shake well.
The proportions of oil and vinegar may be reversed if desired.
Marguerite Rickert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
SWEET CREAM DRESSING
1 egg
1 tablespoon butter
6 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons of sweet milk
Juice of one-half lemon
Add sugar to egg and whip until thoroughly mixed. Add lemon juice,
butter, and sweet milk. Cook in double boiler, stir constantly until
thick. Cool. Serve with any salad.
Ruth Cook, Poplar Bluff, Mo.
University of Missouri.
PINEAPPLE SALAD DRESSING
(For Fruit Salad)
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
2 eggs
1/2 cup sugar
Pineapple juice
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 pint whipping cream
Cream butter and sugar, add flour and the beaten eggs. Heat juice
of one large can sliced pineapple and add to above mixture. Cook
until thick (about three minutes over flame-longer in double
boiler). Cool and add whipped cream.
This makes dressing enough for salad for twelve people.
Virginia Green, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
FRUIT SALAD DRESSING
1/4 cup pineapple juice
1 tablespoon flour
1/4 cup orange juice
3 tablespoons water
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1 egg
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup whipped cream
Scald fruit juices, mix sugar, flour and water to paste. Add beaten
egg, stir in juice. Cook in double boiler until thick. When ready
to use add whipped cream. Serves ten or twelve.
Helen Bayne, Bloomington, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
COLLEGE W O M A N S C00K B 00K
47
PINEAPPLE DESSERT
1 medium sized can grated
3/4 cup water
pineapple
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup nut meats
Whipped cream
4 tablespoons cornstarch
1 cake
Heat the pineapple, to which has been added the sugar and water.
Dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the water; add to the mixture
and cook till all thickens and looks clear. Allow to cool. Spread
about an inch thick on a white or yellow cake which has been baked
in two layers. Top this with stiffly whipped cream and sprinkle
with ground nuts. Cut in squares and serve.
Leila Foresman Hanson, Brook, Ind.
De Pauw University.
FUDGE PUDDING
2 ounces chocolate
teaspoon salt
1 1/2 pints milk
2 cups sugar
1 pint bread crumbs
1/2 cup dates or nuts
2 eggs
3 tablespoons butter
Heat milk, butter, chocolate and salt and pour over the crumbs.
Cool slightly and add beaten eggs. Then add sugar, or it may be
put in with milk when heated. Add fruit. Bake in buttered dish
for fifty or sixty minutes in moderate oven.
Serve with sauce:
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon flour
1 cup sweet milk
1 tablespoon butter
Vanilla
Boil for few minutes and let cool.
Edith Speckman Kern, Chicago, III.
University of Minnesota.
STEAMED DATE PUDDING
3 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 cup milk
cups flour
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 pound dates cut in small
pieces
Melt butter, add molasses and milk. Then add all the dry ingredients
which have been sifted together, and the dates. Steam for two and
one-half hours.
Golden Sauce
Put in a double boiler
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup butter
1/3 cup milk
When dissolved, beat in the yolks of two eggs. Add one teaspoon
of vanilla and beat with Dover egg beater to keep from lumping.
Serve hot with the Date Pudding.
Esther Hunter Ong, Champaign, Ill.
University of Illinois.
APRICOT SOUFFLE
6 whole apricots, cooked
1/2 cup sugar
and strained through
1/2 cup milk
siève
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons butter
4 eggs
Put butter in saucepan on stove, add milk and stir till it boils.
Add fruit, boil eight minutes. Remove from fire. Add beaten egg
yolks slowly. Fold in beaten egg whites. Pour into buttered pan
and bake in moderate oven until firm. Serve at once.
Ella Record, Cambridge, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
55
CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE
3/3 tablespoon butter
2 tablespoons sugar
3/3 tablespoon flour
2/3 tablespoon hot water
1/4 cup milk
1 egg
1/2 square bitter chocolate
Vanilla
Melt butter, add flour; while stirring add milk slowly. Cook until
boiling point is reached. Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar
and water, stir until smooth. Combine the mixture and add well
beaten yolk. Cool. Fold in stiffly beaten whites and add vanilla.
Bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. Serve with whipped
cream.
Evelyn Woodward, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
LEMON SOUFFLE
Yolks 4 eggs
1 cup sugar
Grated rind and juice 1
Whites of 4 eggs
lemon
Beat yolks until thick and lemon colored, add sugar gradually and
continue beating; add lemon rind and juice. Fold in egg whites.
Turn into buttered dish, place in pan of warm water and bake in a
moderate oven until firm. Serve with hot sauce.
Sauce
1 cup sugar
1 egg
Juice of 1/2 lemon
Beat and pour into six tablespoons hot milk. Let come to boiling
point.
Margaret Roberts Jones, Coldwater, Minn.
University of Wisconsin.
SAILOR'S DUFF
1/2 cup molasses
1 egg
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons melted butter
1 teaspoon soda in a little
1 1/2 cups flour
hot water
Beat well and add one-half cup boiling water and steam one hour.
Sauce
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 tablespoon cornstarch in cold water to make a smooth paste.
Pour over this two cups boiling water. Cook till it thickens and
flavor with vanilla.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
CARAMELIZED APPLES
Dissolve 1 tablespoon gela-
1/4
cup cream or milk
tine in 1/4 cup cold water
3/4 cup chopped walnuts
Select 6 Wine-Sap or Jona-
cup water
than apples
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup sugar
Peel and core apples, leaving them whole. Cook till tender in the
syrup made by boiling the white sugar and water ten minutes.
Cook brown sugar and milk and butter till it will form a soft ball
when tested in cold water. Remove from fire and add nuts. Place
apples in dishes ready to serve. Fill centers with nut mixture. Add
gelatine to water in which apples were cooked, and pour it around
apples.
Serve with whipped cream. Serves six.
Vera Flack, Macomb, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLL W M A N S C O K B o o K
56
REFRIGERATOR CAKE
1/2 pound unsalted butter
1 cup confectioner's sugar
Juice of 1 lemon
Juice of 1 orange
2 dozen lady fingers
2 eggs
Cream butter and sugar until fluffy; add eggs, one at a time; then
lemon and orange juice, beating constantly until very light. Line
sides and bottom of mold with split lady fingers and pour in one-half
of the mixture; cover with layer of lady fingers; pour in rest of
mixture and again cover with layer of lady fingers. Let stand in
refrigerator twenty-four hours. Before serving cover with whipped
cream. This recipe will serve twelve.
Thorborg Swenson, Rockford, III.
University of Wisconsin.
FIG AND MARSHMALLOW DESSERT
1 lb. cooking figs
Marshmallows
Whipping cream
Stew figs until tender without sugar. When soft, drain off liquid;
add one cup sugar to three cups liquid and simmer down to a rich
syrup. When ready to serve cut figs in halves, insert one-half of a
marshmallow in each portion of fig; place eight or ten of the stuffed
figs in a sherbet glass, cover with syrup and then whipped cream.
Marguerite C. Lund, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
MARSHIMALLOW PUDDING
2 cups milk
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon sugar
16 marshmallows
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla
Add cornstarch (rubbed smooth in little cold milk) to scalded
milk; cook about fifteen minutes in double boiler; remove from fire
and add sugar and beat in marshmallows. Add vanilla and fold in
egg whites. Cool.
Margaret Taylor, Kewanee, III.
Northwestern University.
DATE PUDDING
4 cups water
1 cup sugar
1 cup graham flour
1 pound dates
1 cup nuts
Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes; add graham
flour slowly, stirring constantly; add dates, ground or chopped, and
boil for fifteen minutes. Remove from fire and add nuts. Serve
cold with whipped cream or ice cream. Serves fourteen.
Faye Thornton Havens, Bloomington, III.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
PRINCESS PUDDING
Yolks of 3 eggs
1/3 cup sugar
Grated rind 1/2 lemon
2 tablespoons lemon juice
3/4 tablespoons granulated
Whites of 3 eggs
gelatine dissolved in 3 tablespoons of boiling water.
Beat egg yolks until thick and add sugar gradually; then add rind
of lemon, lemon juice and dissolved gelatine. As soon as mixture
begins to thicken, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Serve with
whipped cream. This recipe will serve six people.
Thorborg Swenson, Rockford, III.
University of Wisconsin.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o K B o o K
57
STEAMED PUDDING
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in
2 teaspoons melted butter
a little hot water
1 egg
1 1/2 cups flour, measured
1/2 cup dark molasses
after sifting
Mix together and add very slowly 1/2 cup boiling water.
Steam 3/4 of an hour.
This pudding is good after being steamed a second time.
Sauce
1 cup powdered sugar
Yolks of 2 eggs
1 cup cream
Beat eggs and sugar together. Whip cream and add a little at a
time to mixture. Flavor. Serves ten people.
Helen E. Heggie, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
PARSONS PUDDING
Combine in the following order:
1/2 cup melted butter
1 cup raisins
1 cup cold water
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in
1 cup molasses
1/4 cup cold water
3 cups flour
Steam in funnel pudding mold for three hours. Serve with sauce.
Sauce
Cream thoroughly
2/3 cup butter
1 1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon boiling water
Add yolks of three eggs. Then add slowly, creaming all the time,
the stiffly beaten egg whites. Flavor with vanilla.
Helen Gelhar, Glencoe, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ORANGE PUDDING
1 cup bread crumbs and
Yolks of 2 eggs and whites
juice and rind of 1/2
of 4
orange
1/3 cup sugar
Cover the bread crumbs with milk.
Add orange juice and rind, and
beaten yolks of two eggs.
Beat whites stiff, add the sugar, beat and add to the mixture. Bake
in buttered molds in a pan of hot water.
Sauce
1/3 cup butter
Grated rind of 1/2 orange
1 cup sugar
(and a little of the juice)
Yolks of the 2 remaining eggs
cup scalded milk
Marion Brown Corneliussen,
University of Illinois.
MAPLE RICE PUDDING
1/4 cup rice
1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 cups milk
3/4 cup maple syrup
2 eggs
Boil rice till tender. Scald milk in double boiler. Stir the corn-
starch smooth in one-half cup of the maple syrup and stir into the
hot milk. When mixture thickens, cover and let cook fifteen
minutes. Add the rice, which has been cooked till grains are dry
and distinct and beat in the yolks of eggs beaten light. Beat
whites of eggs till dry and gradually add remainder of maple syrup
and spread over pudding. Bake in moderate oven about ten or
fifteen minutes.
Mabel Mason Carleton, Cambridge, Mass.
Northwestern University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
58
MOCHA PUDDING
1 1/2 cups scalded milk
1 1/2 cups coffee
1/2 cup sugar
Cook ten minutes in double boiler and add:
2 tablespoons gelatine
Yolks 2 eggs, well beaten
2 squares melted chocolate
1/4 cup sugar
Let cool a few minutes and then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of
two eggs; flavor with vanilla. Cool in individual molds and serve
with Wi.ipped cream. Serves eight persons.
Emily Gleason Perkins, Oklahoma City, Okla.
Boston University.
STEAMED CARROT PUDDING
1 cup grated raw carrot
1 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 cup grated raw potato
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cloves
Butter size of an egg
1 teaspoon soda mixed
1 cup flour
with potato
1 cup raisins
Mix well and steam three hours. Serve with sauce.
Marjorie L. Miller, Kewanee, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHOCOLATE RICE PUDDING
Boil rice until very soft. When nearly soft add chopped nuts, cocoa
and sugar (as much as is desired). Boil all together. Beat an egg
and add an equal quantity of canned milk. Stir into boiling rice
mixture. Mix thoroughly and as soon as it begins to bubble,
remove from stove, so as not to boil the milk. Add vanilla flavor-
ing.
Marion Brown Corneliussen,
University of Illinois.
DATE PUDDING
1/2 cup of pearl tapioca
Whites of 2 eggs well beaten
1 cup of dates, chopped
Little sugar
1 teaspoon of vanilla
Soak the tapioca for two hours in enough water to cover and cook
until clear in two cups of water seasoned with a pinch of salt and
one-quarter cup of sugar. Fold this in the stiffly beaten egg whites
and let the mixture cool. Sugar the dates lightly and mix with the
tapioca. Then fold in one-half cup of whipped cream. Garnish
with whole fruit.
Lucile Peck, Menomonie Falls, Wis.
Northwestern University.
FLOAT
1 quart milk
2 heaping tablespoons corn-
1/2 cup sugar
starch
3 eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt (may be
1 teaspoon vanilla
omitted)
Scald milk in double boiler, saving a little to mix cornstarch with
eggs. Mix slightly beaten eggs, sugar, cornstarch together and add
to hot milk. Cook until mixture thickens on spoon. Remove from
fire, cool and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and flavoring. Let
stand before serving cold.
Marian Van Ness, Chicago, Ill.
University of Michigan.
CLLGE W O M A N S C O O K B o o K
59
CHARLOTTE RUSSE
Dissolve one-third box Cox gelatine in one cup milk. Beat the yolks
of three eggs with one-half pint of sugar until creamy and flavor
with vanilla. Combine the egg yolk and sugar mixture with the
dissolved gelatine and fold into one quart of cream whipped to a
froth. Add the beaten whites of three eggs. Line a deep dish with
sponge cake or lady fingers and pour over the mixture.
Charlotte Reed, Martinez, Calif.
University of California.
QUICK DESSERT
2 cups brown sugar
2 cups water
2 teaspoons cornstarch
Nuts or cocoanut
Whipped cream
Boil first three ingredients together five minutes. Set aside and cool.
Add nuts or cocoanut. Serve with whipped cream.
Beth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, III.
Northwestern University.
JELLIED APPLES
Pare and core ten or twelve small apples, put on deep pan with
two and one-half cups water, and one and one-half cups sugar, pinch
salt, cook on top of stove until tender. Place each apple in separate
mold and cover with the following jelly mixture:-one-half box or
two tablespoons granulated gelatine dissolved in a little cold water,
juice of two lemons, add syrup in which apples were cooked, enough
to make a scant quart in all. Color pink if desired. Serve with
whipped cream.
Doris Munsey, Swampscott, Mass.
Boston University.
PEACH MELLOWS
Take peach halves, fill the cavity with marshmallow, and pour
over them the following:
1 cup peach juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 yolk of an egg
1 teaspoon cornstarch dis-
solved in water
Let juice and sugar come to a boil. Add the egg yolk and corn-
starch to the boiling juice and let come to a boil but do not boil
hard. Pour over peach halves while still hot. Sufficient for 6 peaches.
Ruth Cordes, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
CHERRY COBBLER
Fruit Mixture
2 cups cherries (pitted)
2 teaspoons flour
2/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon water
1/8 teaspoon salt
Dough
1 cup flour
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 tablespoons shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons milk
Mix the cherries, sugar, flour and salt. Allow to stand five minutes.
Add the water. Pour the mixture into a deep baking dish. Mix the
flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Cut in the shortening with a
knife. Add the milk, mixing until a soft dough is formed. Shape it
with the hands to fit over the cherries and make three slits in the
dough to permit the steam to escape. Place in a moderate oven
and bake for thirty minutes. Serve with whipped cream. Six por-
tions.
Ruth Foley, Paris, III.
Northwestern University.
CLEGE W o M A N S C O O K B o o K
60
CARAMEL CREAM DESSERT
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon gelatine
1/2 pint cream
Caramelize sugar, adding sufficient boiling water to make one pint
of liquid. Soak gelatine in half cup of cold water and add to hot
caramel liquid, mixing thoroughly. Allow mixture to cool and
begin to set. When but slightly set, add the cream which has been
well whipped. Pour into sherbet glasses and serve very cold. Will
serve six or eight, depending on size of glasses.
Louise Leonard, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
NESSELRODE PUDDING
(Frozen)
3 cups cream
2 cups sugar
5 egg yolks
Pinch of salt
2 cups milk
1/2 cup pineapple syrup
1 pint nuts
1 cup candied pineapple
Make a custard of the milk, sugar, eggs and salt. Strain, then cool.
Add the pineapple syrup, cream. Then freeze. When partly frozen,
add the nuts and fruits cut up. Serves twelve.
Lillian Hanson Halgren Menominee, Wis.
University of Minnesota.
PEACH SHERBET
1 quart water
10 peach kernels
2 cups sugar
Juice 2 oranges
1 teaspoon gelatine
Juice 1 lemon
1 pint peach pulp
Boil water, peach kernels, and sugar ten minutes. Add gelatine
softened in two tablespoons cold water and strain. When cool
add the peach pulp (fresh peaches pared, stoned, and pulp passed
through a ricer or sieve), the lemon and orange juice. Remove
peach kernels and freeze.
Marjorie Sibley, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
GRAPE SHERBET
1 quart water
1 pint grape juice
1 pint sugar
Juice 2 lemons
1 teaspoon gelatine
Make a syrup of the sugar and water, add grape and lemon juice.
Hydrate gelatine in small amount of cold water, add to hot liquid,
and when dissolved, freeze as usual.
Olga H. Six, Broadlands, Ill.
Northwestern University.
FRUIT CUP
1 cup white grapes
1/2 cup orange juice
1 cup orange sections
1/2 cup pineapple syrup
1 cup pineapple diced
Sugar
Few grains salt
Remove skins and seeds from white grapes, and membrane from
orange sections. Mix fruit, orange juice and pineapple syrup or
fresh pineapple juice, salt and sugar to sweeten. Put in freezer,
pack in ice and salt, and stir occasionally until juice begins to
freeze. Serve in champagne glasses garnished with maraschino
cherries. Makes eight small or six large servings.
Lois Bunnelle, Corvallis, Oregon.
Oregon Agricultural College.
C o L L E G E W O M A N S C o o K B o o K
62
LONDON SHERBET
Juice of 6 oranges
1 small can grated pineapple
Juice of 3 lemons
4 cups sugar
Mix all together; let stand a few minutes; put into a gallon freezer.
Add enough whole milk to fill freezer three-fourths full and freeze.
Harriet E. Smith, Avoca, Iowa.
Iowa State College.
FRUIT SHERBET
3 oranges
3 bananas
3 lemons
3 cups granulated sugar
3 cups water
3 egg whites
Prepare juice from the oranges and lemons, mash the bananas, put
all through a strainer; add water and sugar; stir until dissolved.
Put into a freezer and freeze to the consistency of mush, then open
the top and quickly stir in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Repack
and finish freezing. Makes two quarts.
Ruth Hickox, Barberton, Ohio.
University of Akron.
FROZEN APRICOTS
1 quart canned apricots
1 quart water
2 cups sugar
Juice from apricots.
Remove skins from apricots and cut pulp in quarters or eighths;
add the juice, water, and sugar which has been made into a syrup.
Cool and add apricots. Freeze. Allow mixture to stand an hour
before serving.
Lenore Stafford, Geneseo, Ill.
Northwestern University.
APRICOT FRAPPE
1 can apricots
1 quart water
1 pint sugar
1/2 pint whipped cream
Mash the apricots and press them through a sieve, then add sugar
and water. Put in freezer and turn until nearly frozen. Fold in
cream, freeze and pack.
Irma Strassen Brady, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
ANGEL PARFAIT
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup water
3 egg whites
1 pint whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla
Cook sugar and water together until it forms a soft ball in cold
water. Pour over stiffly beaten egg whites and beat until cool.
Add whipped cream and flavoring. Put in a mold with a tight lid
and pack in ice and salt for several hours.
Bernice Grantham, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
GRAPE JUICE MOUSSE
1 pint cream (whipping)
1 cup grape juice
1/2 cup powdered sugar
Whip cream, add sugar and grape juice, turn mixture into a mold,
pack in ice and salt, and let stand for four hours.
Note: Strawberry mousse may be made by substituting
2 cups mashed strawberries for grape juice
Chocolate mousse may be made by substituting
4 squares Baker's chocolate (melted) for grape juice
Lucile Robertson, Evanston, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
CLEGE W o M A N S C O o K B o o K
63
NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM
1 pint milk and
4-6 egg yolks
1 pint cream, or
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 quart rich, creamy milk
1 tablespoon vanilla
Beat the egg yolks until light colored and creamy. Add sug ir and
milk, or milk and cream which has been scalded. Return to the
double boiler and cook as boiled custard. Strain the mixture into a
dish set in cold water (to cool quickly), flavor and freeze.
The Neapolitan method is considered best for making vanilla,
coffee, chocolate, and caramel creams.
Ruth Trice, Kansas City, Mo.
Northwestern University.
PEPPERMINT ICE CREAM
1 pint milk
1/2 pound striped pepper-
1 pint cream
mint candy
Crush candy and dissolve in milk. When this mixture is half
frozen, add the one pint of cream beaten stiff and finish freezing.
Erminie Lamb, Tacoma, Wash.
University of Washington.
CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
2 squares chocolate
1 8 teaspoon salt
1 cup water
1 quart cream
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt chocolate; add hot water and heat five minutes; add sugar,
salt and cool. Add cream and vanilla and freeze.
Doris Bigelow, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM
1 can grated pineapple
2 cups water
1 cup sugar
2 cups whipping cream
Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water ten minutes; cool; add
pineapple and freeze to a mush. Fold in whipped cream; let stand
thirty minutes before serving. Serve in frappe glasses and garnish
with candied pineapple.
Elsie Goodman, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
BUTTER SCOTCH SAUCE
1 cup sugar (white or
2 tablespoons flour
brown)
2 or 3 tablespoons cold water
1 cup water
2 tablespoons butter
Cook sugar till caramelized. Add one cup water carefully. When
caramel is melted and again boiling, stir in two tablespoons flour
smoothed with two or three tablespoons cold water. Continue to
stir till boiling, then let simmer ten minutes. When cool add two
tablespoons of butter.
Pearl Rainey, Mt. Vernon, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHOCOLATE SYRUP FOR VANILLA ICE CREAM
1 ounce chocolate
2 inches of stick cinnamon
4 tablespoons sugar
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 cup boiling water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt chocolate over hot water; add four tablespoons sugar and the
boiling water gradually, stirring constantly. When smooth and
glossy, add the sugar and cinnamon and stir until boiling begins;
let boil five minutes, strain, cool, and add the vanilla.
Ruth Vielehr, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
COLLEG E W o M A N S C O O K B o o
K
64
Cakes, Fillings, Frostings
BLACK WALNUT CAKE
1/2 cup butter (scant)
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup water (cold) or milk
3 cups Swan's Down flour
sifted 3 times
4 egg whites
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup black walnut meats
Cream the butter and sugar; add 1/2 the water and one cup flour;
beat thoroughly and add second cup flour; into the last cup of
flour add the baking powder and then remainder of water and beat
well. Add the nuts and flavoring and lastly very carefully fold in
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in three round tins in moderate oven.
Put together with fig and black walnut filling and top with boiled
frosting.
Lois Denman Stubblefield, Bloomington, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
MARBLE CAKE
Light
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup butter
1/2 cup milk
1 cup flour -
1 teaspoon baking powder
1
teaspoon vanilla
Whites of 2 eggs
Dark
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup butter
1/8 cup molasses
1/8 teaspoon soda
5/8 cup milk
2 egg yolks
1 cup flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon cinnamon cloves
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Cream sugar with butter, add milk, flour which has been sifted with
baking powder and flavorings. In making the light part, fold in the
beaten egg whites. Drop in alternating spoonfuls of light and dark
batter in round or square buttered pan. Bake thirty-five minutes
in moderate oven.
Edith v. Grupe, Buffalo, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
BURNT SUGAR CAKE
Flavoring Syrup:
1 cup sugar burned until it smokes blue; then add
1 cup boiling water
Boil until the sugar is all dissolved and the syrup is clear.
Cake:
1/2 cup butter
2 egg yolks
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup water
2 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat all together for five minutes and then add:
3 tablespoons flavoring syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla
3
egg whites beaten stiff
Bake in moderate oven. This makes two layers.
Frosting:
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
Boil until it spins a thread and add:
3 tablespoons flavoring syrup and boil again
Pour over two egg whites stiffly beaten.
Frances Domack Richey,
Birmingham, Mich.
CEG E W O M A N S C o o K B o o K
68
QUICK LAYER CAKE
Sift together the following:
1 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
In measuring cup melt 1/4 cup butter. Add one egg, one teaspoon
flavoring, and fill cup with milk. Stir liquids into dry ingredients
and beat until well mixed and light. Bake in moderate oven.
Emily H. Butterfield, Farmington, Mich.
Syracuse University.
PINEAPPLE CAKE
1/3 cup butter
2/3 cup sugar creamed
2 egg yolks
1/2 cup pineapple juice
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat two egg whites very stiff and fold in last.
Pineapple Cream Filling
2/3 cup milk
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 egg
3 tablespoons sugar
1 cup grated pineapple
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
Scald milk and pour over cornstarch and sugar. Cook ten minutes,
then add pineapple, egg and salt. Cook until it thickens.
For the icing, use four times as much sugar as pineapple juice,
one teaspoon lemon juice.
Evelyn Austin, Wayne, Mich.
University of Michigan.
APPLE SAUCE CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 cup sugar
1 cup hot, thick, strained
1 egg, beaten
apple sauce (sweetened)
1 3/4 cups flour
1 cup mixed raisins, nuts,
1 teaspoon soda
dates
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream shortening and sugar, add beaten egg. Mix soda with apple
sauce and add flour, spices, vanilla and fruit. Beat for one minute.
Turn into pan and sift granulated sugar over top. Bake forty
minutes.
Louise Whitmore Arthur, New Haven, N. Y.
Boston University.
CHEESE CAKE
Crust-cream 1/2 cup sugar and 1 1/2 tablespoons butter; add one
egg, 1/4 teaspoon baking powder, flavoring and enough flour to roll.
Roll thin and line two pie pans or square cake pans.
Cake-one pound cottage cheese creamed through sieve, one cup
sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, yolks four eggs, one pint cream, stiffly
beaten whites last. Vanilla. Bake until firm.
Leah Kahn, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
SPONGE CAKE
Put into a deep baking bowl
1 small cup granulated sugar
2 eggs-unbeaten
Salt
4 tablespoons cold water
1 cup flour sifted with
Flavoring
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat all ingredients together five minutes. Bake in unbuttered loaf
pan in slow oven.
M. Jeannette Martin, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
COLEGE W o M A N S C O o K B o O K
69
SPONGE CAKE
4 egg yolks (beaten)
1 cup sugar
4 tablespoons cold water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 cup flour
4 egg whites
Beat egg yolks, add sugar gradually and continue beating. To flour
add baking powder and cornstarch. Sift into yolks and sugar; add
water, also vanilla and beat thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten
whites of eggs. Pour into ungreased tube pan and bake forty min-
utes in slow oven. When done, invert pan on cake cooler but do
not remove cake until cold.
Beth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CREAM PUFFS
1 cup hot water
1/2 cup butter
1 cup pastry flour
4 eggs
Heat the butter and water until the mixture boils. Add the flour
all at once and beat thoroughly. Cook three to five minutes, until
mixture clings to spoon and leaves sides of saucepan. When cool
add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time. Beat until thoroughly mixed.
Drop by tablespoon on buttered baking sheets and bake in a mod-
erate oven about forty-five minutes. (Be sure they are thoroughly
done. Will be dry on outside.) Open at the side and fill with cream
filling and dust with powdered sugar.
Cream Filling
1/3 cup flour
2 cups scalded milk
2 eggs
1/8 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
Moisten the flour with some of the cold milk. Add this to the hot
milk. Cook fifteen minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly
until thickened. Beat the eggs, sugar and salt together. Add to
them the hot liquid and butter. Return to double boiler and cook
until the egg thickens, stirring constantly. When cool add flavoring.
Charlotte Martin, Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
ORANGE CREAM LAYER CAKE
1/3 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 3/4 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup sugar
1 cup sweetened flavored
1 cup milk
whipped cream
Cream shortening; add sugar gradually, beating well; add beaten
egg, one-half milk-then mix. Add one-half flour sifted with salt
and baking powder; add remainder of milk, flour and flavoring. Mix
after each addition. Bake in two greased tins in moderate oven for
twenty minutes. Spread whipped cream thickly between layers
and cover top with
Orange Frosting
1 tablespoon cream
1/2 teaspoon orange flavoring
1 cup confectioner's sugar
Pulp and rind of 1 orange
1 tablespoon melted butter
Add sugar to the cream slowly. Then add orange pulp, rind, flavor-
ing and melted butter. Beat until smooth and spread on top of cake.
Edith Morgan, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLEE W o M A N S C O O K B o o K
70
ORANGE SHORTCAKE
2 cups bread flour
6 tablespoons shortening
6 teaspoons baking powder
2 egg yolks
1 teaspoon salt
Milk
1 tablespoon sugar
Oranges
Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, and sift together four
times. Work in shortening, using tips of fingers. Beat egg yolks;
add milk to make three-fourths of a cup; stir into flour, mixing with
a knife. Put on board, knead slightly, roll, cut out with a large
biscuit-cutter, and bake in a hot oven. Split shortcakes, butter
generously, fill with oranges that have been pared, cut in thin sec-
tions and sweetened. Serve with whipped cream, marshmallow
cream, or ice cream.
Evelyn Leander, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
ORANGE LOAF CAKE
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup butter
2 cups orange juice
Grated rind of one orange
4 eggs
2 1/2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
Cream butter, add sugar and egg yolks, beating constantly. Mix
and sift flour with salt and baking powder and add alternately
with liquid to the batter. Do not grease tin but line pan with
waxed paper and bake in moderate oven thirty-five to forty minutes.
Cover with orange frosting or use unfrosted.
Sidonie Sewald Larrance, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ORANGE TEA CAKES
1 1/2 teaspoons baking pow-
1 1/2 cups flour
der
3 eggs-separate the yolks
1 tablespoon orange juice
from the whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup boiling water
1/2 teaspoon salt
Beat yolks of eggs. Add strained orange juice and sugar. Heat for
ten minutes. Add salt, boiling water, whites of eggs stiffly beaten,
and flour. Bake in small gem pans in quick oven for ten minutes.
About twenty cakes.
Ruth Cordes, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
PINEAPPLE CAKE
1/2 cup fat
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
2 egg yolks
3/4 cup syrup drained
2 cups flour
from crushed pineapple
2 egg whites
Cream fat and sugar. Add egg yolks. Sift dry ingredients and add
alternately with pineapple syrup. Fold in beaten whites. Bake in
moderate oven twenty-five minutes.
Icing
2 egg whites stiffly beaten
2 cups powdered sugar
3/4 cup crushed pineapple
Beat well and add powdered sugar until mixture holds its shape.
Doris Bunnelle, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
CLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
71
ANGELFOOD CAKE
Whites of 11 eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar sifted 6 times
1 cup pastry flour sifted 6
1 level teaspoon cream of
times
tartar
1 teaspoon of vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
Beat eggs until stiff. When about half beaten add cream of tartar
and finish beating. Fold in sugar, add flavoring. Then fold in flour.
Pour in ungreased pan and bake very slowly forty-five to sixty
minutes.
Mildred Brown, Cedar Rapids, Ia.
Coe College.
MOCK ANGEL FOOD CAKE
1/2 cup milk
1 cup sugar
1 cup Swan's Down cake
3 teaspoons (level) baking
flour
powder
1 pinch salt
2 egg whites, beaten very stiff
Heat milk to boiling point. Sift flour, salt, sugar five times and stir
into hot milk. Add flavoring and fold in egg whites. Do not use a
greased pan. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in slow oven, increasing heat
when cake is at top of pan. When done invert.
Charlotte E. Dines, Evanston, III.
Northwestern University.
DEVILS FOOD CAKE
Part I-Chocolate Sauce
1 cup bakers chocolate
1 cup brown sugar
(grated)
1 cup milk
Boil until thickened. When cool, add two teaspoons vanilla.
Part II
1 cup brown sugar
2 cups flour
1/4 cup butter
1/2 cup sour milk-1 tea-
2 eggs
spoon soda
Cream sugar and brown, add beaten egg yolks, milk in which soda
has been dissolved and flour. Add cooled chocolate sauce and fold
in beaten whites of eggs. Place in greased tins and bake in a
moderate oven. Use a mocha frosting.
Frosting
1 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon cocoa
1 tablespoon butter
3 tablespoons coffee
Cream butter and add sugar gradually, continuing the beating;
then add cocoa and coffee until stiff enough to spread.
Margaret Roberts Jones, Coldwater, Mich.
University of Wisconsin.
DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE (POTATO)
2 cups granulated sugar
3/4 cup crisco
4 eggs, yolks
1 cup hot mashed potatoes
2 squares Baker's Chocolate
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
(grated, about 1/2 cup)
2 teaspoons cinnamon
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup milk
2 cups flour
1 cup nut meats
Cream together sugar and crisco, then cream with the yolks of the
eggs. Stir in the mashed potatoes, grated chocolate and nut meats.
Sift together the flour, nutmeg and cinnamon and stir in alternately
with the milk. Beat thoroughly and lastly fold in the beaten white
of eggs. Makes large cake.
Lois Walker, Berkeley, Calif.
University of California.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o O K
72
FUDGE CAKE
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup chocolate dissolved
3 egg yolks
in water
1 cup sweet milk
2 1/2 cups flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup nuts-cut fine
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 egg whites, beaten light-added last
Cream sugar and butter; add chocolate, egg yolks, milk and flour
(sifted with baking powder). Fold in the chocolate, vanilla and
beaten egg whites. Bake in buttered pan in moderate oven.
Elva Moore Christophersen, Rockford, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CHOCOLATE CAKE
Part I
3/4 cup grated chocolate
1/2 cup strong coffee
1/2 cup brown sugar
Put in a saucepan and cook until thick. Cool.
Part II
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup coffee
1 3/4 cups flour
2 eggs
-
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter and sugar; add coffee, egg yolks and chocolate sauce
(Part I). Add flour sifted with soda and baking powder, vanilla.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
Use mocha frosting between layers of cake.
J. Dickson, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
BUTTERLESS, EGGLESS, MILKLESS CAKE
2 cups sugar (use brown if
1 pound chopped raisins
preferred)
2 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
2/3 cup crisco, or meat drip-
1/2 teaspoon allspice
pings
Boil three minutes and cool. Add to this cold mixture
4 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon soda
This makes a stiff batter. Instead of all raisins, 1/2 cup nuts may be
substituted; if so, put them in with the flour after mixture is cool.
Bake slowly for one and one-half hours.
Mary More, Berkeley,Calif
University of California.
PRUNE CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 cup mashed prunes
1/2 cup chocolate
1 tablespoon butter
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 level teaspoon soda
2 eggs
3/4 cup milk
Flour enough to make stiff batter
Cream sugar with butter; add milk, chocolate and flour, which has
been sifted with soda and baking powder. Add spices and prunes.
Bake in buttered pan in a moderate oven.
Icing
1/3 cup butter
1 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon strong black coffee 1 tablespoon chocolate
Cream butter and add sugar gradually. Add coffee and chocolate.
Virginia Kilgore, Oakland, Cal.
University of California.
COLL,EG E W O M A N S C O o K B o O K
73
SUNSHINE CAKE
Whites of 6 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cream tartar
Yolks of 6 eggs
1 cup sifted flour
Beat whites until stiff and dry, then add sugar gradually, beating
constantly; then add well beaten yolks and vanilla. Cut and fold in
flour sifted with baking powder. Bake 45 minutes in moderate oven.
Margaret Roberts Jones, Coldwater, Mich.
University of Wisconsin.
ENGLISH SPICE CAKE
1 package raisins
1 cup nut meats
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup chopped citron
1/2 cup butter
3 teaspoons cinnamon
2 eggs
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 teaspoons soda
3 cups flour
Simmer raisins for 20 minutes in just enough water to cover. Drain,
saving one large cup of water to cool. Cream sugar and butter.
Add beaten egg yolks; also raisin water and flour in which soda and
spices have been sifted. Add raisins and citron (carefully dredged
in flour) and nutmeats. Fold in egg whites. Bake slowly in greased
angel food tin for 60 minutes.
Helen Pfeiffer Higgs, Peoria, Ill.
Northwestern University.
WASHINGTON PIE
3/4 cup sugar
1 egg yolk
1/3 cup fat
3/4 cup milk
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 beaten egg white
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cream fat with sugar. Sift together the flour, baking powder and
salt. Beat sugar, fat and egg yolk together, and add alternately with
milk. Then fold in vanilla and stiffly beaten egg white. Pour into
buttered tin and bake in moderate oven.
Custard
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons cornstarch
1 egg yolk
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Combine and cook in double boiler until thick. Cool. Spread on
top of cake and serve.
Rose Shepherd, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
POTATO CARAMEL CAKE
2 cups sugar
2/3 cup butter
2 cups flour
1 cup hot mashed potato
1/2 cup sweet milk
4 eggs
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup grated chocolate
1 cup chopped nuts
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon nutmeg
Cream butter and sugar. Add yolks of eggs, then add milk,
potatoes, spices, and chocolate. Mix baking powder in with flour.
Beat the batter well. Add the well beaten whites of the eggs and
the nuts last. This makes a large loaf.
Helen R. Murray, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
CLEE W o M A N S COOK B o o K
74
YELLOW LOAF CAKE
2 cups sugar
1 scant cup butter
1 cup milk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
4 whole eggs-separated
Cream butter with sugar; add milk; and flour which has been sifted
three times with baking powder. Fold in stiffly beaten eggs. Bake
forty to forty-five minutes in moderate oven.
Elsie Gaiser Mitchell, Charleston, Ill.
University of Illinois.
HOT WATER GINGERBREAD
1 cup molasses
1/2 cup boiling water
2 1/4 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda
1 1/2 teaspoon ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons melted butter
Pour water over molasses and add the dry ingredients (sifted
together). Beat for about two minutes and bake in a buttered
pan for thirty minutes in moderate oven.
Frances Barron, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
ANGEL GINGERBREAD
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup molasses
1 tablespoon shortening
1 teaspoon soda
1/3 cup boiling water
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
114 cups flour
Mix well and bake in moderate.oven
Serve hot with whipped cream-when used as a dessert. Serves
six persons.
Louise Whitmore, New Haven, N. Y.
Boston University.
CRUMB CAKE
3 cups flour
2 cups sugar
1 cup butter
Rub all together like pie crust. Reserve about 3/4 cup of this and
to remainder add:
2 well beaten eggs
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 teaspoons molasses
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
Put in cake tin and sprinkle the 3/4 cup of crumbs on top and bake
slowly. Do not frost.
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
CRUMB CAKE
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter and lard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 lemon rind
2 eggs beaten separately
1 large spoon molasses
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 cups flour
1 cup raisins dredged with flour
Bake in two layers twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Sprin-
kle one-half cup crumbs on top of one layer before it is baked.
Cream Filling
1 cup scalded milk in a 1 beaten egg with 1/2 cup
double boiler
sugar
3 level teaspoons cornstarch
Stir until thick; let cool; flavor with vanilla extract.
Evelyn M. Ewert, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
75
DATE CAKE
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons crisco
1 egg
1 cup cut dates
1 teaspoon soda sprinkled
1 cup cut nuts
over dates and then fill
134 cups flour
cup with boiling water
May be made by beating all ingredients together for about two
minutes or by usual method of creaming sugar and butter; adding
water, soda, dates, nuts, and flour; and lastly adding beaten egg.
Bake slowly in buttered tin.
Evelyn Flanley Peterson, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
MARSHMALLOW ICING
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon corn syrup
Boil until it spins a thread, drop in six marshmallows, then pour
slowly on one stiffly beaten egg white, add one-half teaspoon lemon
extract and beat until nearly cold.
Vina Freitag Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo.
University of Illinois.
MOCHA FILLING
6 tablespoons butter
2 cups confectioner's sugar
4 tablespoons dry cocoa
2 tablespoons warm liquid
1 tablespoon vanilla
coffee
Beat butter to a cream. Add one cup sugar. Sift in cocoa. Beat
well. Put in coffee and rest of sugar and vanilla.
Mary Clendenin, East Orange, N. J.
Allegheny College.
BUTTERSCOTCH FILLING
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup brown sugar
3/4 cup warm milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons cold milk
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
Confectioner's sugar
Place butter and brown sugar in saucepan and stir over fire until
they form a candy. Then pour in 3/4 cup milk. Let simmer until
candy is melted. Now thicken with one tablespoon cornstarch mixed
with two tablespoons milk. Beat up egg and add, stirring until it
thickens. Add vanilla. Use more than half for filling and to the
rest add enough confectioner's sugar to make a paste for icing top
and sides of cake.
Edith Speckman Kern, Chicago, Ill.
University of Minnesota.
PINEAPPLE FILLING FOR CAKE
1 small can grated pine-
cup sugar
apple
1 tablespoon flour
1 egg yolk
1 teaspoon lemon juice
Cook until thick, let cool and spread on cake. Cover. with any
boiled icing.
Vina Freitag Kilby, Jefferson City, Mo.
University of Illinois.
SEVEN MINUTE FROSTING
Have water boiling in bottom of double boiler. In upper part, put
white of one raw egg, three tablespoons cold water and one cup
cane sugar. Beat for seven minutes with a double Dover egg beater.
Frosting should be the consistency of marshmallow cream.
Note:-Be sure water in bottom of boiler boils all the time while
beating.
Viola Michel, Chicago, III.
Northwestern University.
7
CLEGE W o M A N S C o O K B o o K
76
CHOCOLATE SAUCE
Good for ice cream, boiled rice, puddings, etc.
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup boiling water
1/4 cup cocoa
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Mix sugar and cocoa, add boiling water, and stir and cook till it
boils. Let boil five or six minutes. Use hot or cold. Do not flavor
till ready to use.
Violet Long, Dudley, Ill.
Northwestern University.
BAVARIAN CREAM (Cake Filling)
Bake your favorite Sunshine or Sponge Cake in tube pan. Cover
over with the following Bavarian Cream:
1
envelope (scant) Knox
1/2 cup water-warm
gelatine
6 egg yolks
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 bottles plain cream
1 1/2 bottles whipping cream
Vanilla to flavor
Pinch salt
1 cup chopped almonds
Dissolve gelatine in water. Heat plain cream and mix. Add this to
eggs and sugar, creamed together. Whip whipping cream, add
vanilla and salt, and add to other mixture. When cool, spread thick
over cake. Blanch, chop and brown almonds and sprinkle over all.
Will serve sixteen. Can be made the day before. Keep cool.
Beth Manker Dobbin, Wilmette, Ill.
Northwestern University.
LADY FINGER TORTE
6 eggs
1 cup almonds (ground)
1 cup sugar
6 stale lady fingers (grated
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
and browned for a
1 teaspoon vanilla
minute in oven.)
Beat eggs well. Add sugar gradually (constantly beating mixture)
then almonds and finally the lady fingers and baking powder. Flavor.
FILLING
1 cup cream
1 cup chopped almonds
3 egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
Cook in double boiler until thick; stir occasionally. Serve between
the layers of cake and top with whipped cream to which has been
added a small amount of sugar and vanilla.
Vera Gifford Nott, Byron, III.
Northwestern University.
DATE TORTE
1 cup dates (stoned)
1 1/2 cups flour
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 egg
1 scant teaspoon soda dis-
solved in little boiling
water
Cook stoned dates in 1 1/2 cups boiling water for ten minutes. Cool.
Cream sugar with butter and add soda and one cup of the flour.
Add dates (dredged in flour), walnuts and one-half cup of flour with
baking powder. Bake in two layers in moderate oven and put
together with butter filling and top with whipped cream.
Butter Filling
Cream butter size of walnut, add one cup powdered sugar and enough
milk to give it the consistency for spreading.
Marguerite Rickert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
C o L L E G E W M A N S C o o K B o o K
77
Cookies E° Doughnuts
SUGAR COOKIES
1/2 cup butter
2 1/4 cup flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup milk
1/3 teaspoon vanilla
Cream butter with sugar; add egg; milk and dry ingredients (sifted
together). Roll thin and bake in moderate oven.
Violet MacLeod, North Tonawanda, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
SWEDISH COOKIES
1 1/2 cups sugar
Flour-about 5 cups,
1/2 cup butter
enough so that mixture
1 cup sour cream
will not stick to board
2 eggs, well beaten
1 teaspoon flavoring-
1 teaspoon baking powder
vanilla or lemon
1 teaspoon soda
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Sift baking powder and soda
with flour and add to mixture alternately with sour cream. Sprinkle
cookies with sugar. Bake 10 minutes in a quick oven.
Helen E. Heggie, Evanston, III.
Northwestern University.
SWEDISH COOKIES
1 cup of brown sugar
1 cup nuts
1 cup of granulated sugar
1/4 cup hot water with 1 tea-
1 cup of butter or fat
spoonful soda dissolved in
2 eggs
it
3 1/2 cups flour
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla
Form dough into a roll, let stand over night, or for several hours in
ice box, slice, and bake in moderate oven.
Helen Hartsook, Winterset, Iowa.
Northwestern University.
FUDGE SQUARES
3 tablespoons butter
cup sugar
1 egg
cup milk
1 cup flour
2 tablespcons cocoa
1 teaspoon baking powder
1
4
teaspoon salt
1/2 cup walnuts
1
teaspoon vanilla
Melt the butter, add sugar and egg unbeaten. Add nuts with the
cocoa, flour, salt, and baking powder which have been sifted alto-
gether. Add the milk alternately with the dry ingredients. Put in
shallow pan and bake in moderate oven. Cut in squares before
re-
moving from pan.
Esther Hunter Ong, Champaign, III.
University of Illinois.
NUT COOKIES
1 cup brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup melted shortening
1 teaspoon baking powder,
1 egg
sifted with
1/2 cup sweet milk
1 1/2 cups flour
2 squares chocolate, melted
1 cup nut meats
Drop with spoon and bake in hot oven.
Irene Gunn Lucas, San Luis Obispo, Calif.
University of California.
COLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
78
CHOCOLATE COOKIES
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter
3/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon soda (in milk)
1 beaten egg
1 1/2 cups flour
2 squares melted chocolate
Make as cake. Drop from a spoon on greased pan. Bake in moderate
oven.
Frost as follows:
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons water
Butter size of egg
2 squares chocolate
Cook until it sticks together in water (like fudge)-b and spread
before too thick. Add yolk of egg, beaten in slowly when frosting
is partly cold.
Vera Gifford Nott, Byron, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CHOCOLATE DIPS
6 eggs separated
1 heaping teaspoon baking
1 cup sugar
powder
1 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar and beat well, then add beaten
yolks and sifted flour. Flavor. Bake in square pan in hot oven and
cool. Cut in small squares. Dip in following icing.
1/3 cup cocoa
2 cups sugar
1 cup water
Boil until a thick syrup. Let cool and dip squares. Then roll in
powdered sugar. This will make 36 small cakes.
Esther Hardy Halsey, Omaha, Nebr.
Brenau College.
GINGER COOKIES
1/3 cup sugar
1 egg
1 cup shortening
1/4 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup molasses
3 cups flour
1 heaping teaspoonful bak-
teaspoonful cloves
ing powder
1 tablespoonful ginger
1 teaspoonful cinnamon
1 cup milk
Mix the sugar, beaten egg and melted shortening. Stir soda into
molasses and add. Sift flour, baking powder and spices together
and add. Pour in milk and beat well. Bake in a moderate oven.
This cake may be baked in a biscuit pan, muffin tins, or rolled out
thin for cookies. It makes a dozen and a half small cakes. If sour
milk is used, stir in 1/4 teaspoonful of soda.
Alice C. Taylor, Cambridge, Mass.
Boston University.
BOSTON COOKIES
1 cup butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups sugar
1 cup chopped nuts
3 eggs
1/2 cup chopped raisins
3 cups flour
1/2 cup currants
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
If eggs are not large, one or two tablespoons milk or water should
be added to make a stiff batter. Cream butter with sugar; add
beaten eggs; add gradually the flour sifted with other dry ingredients
Wash and dredge currants and raisins and add with nuts (alter-
nating with flour).
Drop by spoonfuls on greased tin and bake in moderate oven.
Makes about six dozen cookies.
Dorothy Joesting Lundvall, Baltimore, Md.
Goucher College.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B O o K
79
WINE DROPS
1 cup molasses
1 cup sugar
1 cup shortening
1/2 cup hot water
1 egg
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup chopped raisins
4 cups flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon and cloves
Cream butter with sugar; add molasses and soda and then hot
water; wash and dredge raisins with flour and add with egg; add
flour gradually. Drop from spoon on well greased tins and bake
in a hot oven.
Isabelle Rae Copleston, Coxsackie, N. Y.
Syracuse University.
WINE AND ROSEWATER COOKIES
1/2 pound butter
1 pound sugar
3 eggs
Rind of 1 lemon
1 glass red wine
2 teaspoons baking powder
3 teaspoons rosewater or
3 or 4 cups of flour, enough
vanilla
to roll out
Cream sugar and butter; add wine, flavoring; sift flour and baking
powder together and add gradually to the dough, alternating with
well beaten eggs. Roll out thin and bake in a hot oven.
Makes six to seven dozen.
Evelyn M. Ewert, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
BUTTER SCOTCH COOKIES
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 cup butter
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
Pinch of salt
4 cups flour
Cream butter with sugar; add beaten eggs and vanilla; sift salt,
soda and cream of tartar with flour and add gradually to the dough.
Mix at night and make into a long roll. In the morning, cut into
slices and bake in moderate oven.
A cup of nut meats can be added if less butter is used.
Loretta Heilman, Akron, Ohio,
University of Akron.
ALMOND COOKIES
1 cup white sugar
1 cup brown sugar
3/4 cup melted butter
3/4 cup melted crisco or but-
4 1/2 cups flour
ter substitute
3 eggs
1 tablespoon cinnamon and
Small teaspoon soda in flour
salt
1/2 pound blanched almonds
Mix and put in loaf. Let stand in buttered tins over night. Cut in
thin slices and bake as wanted. Will keep in the ice box for some
time.
May Willis Whitney, Cleveland, Ohio.
University of Wisconsin.
PECAN FIVE O'CLOCK TEAS
Beat the white of one egg stiff. To this add one cup of brown sugar
(be sure that there are no lumps) and one cup salted pecans. Drop
portions about the size of a large walnut into a well buttered pan
and cook in a moderate oven about twenty or thirty minutes.
You may use the unsalted pecans, in which event add a little salt
to the ingredients. Walnuts may be substituted for pecans.
Mildred Horn Hall, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
80
MOLASSES FRUIT COOKIES
1 cup sugar
cup shortening
2 eggs
2/3 cups molasses
1 teaspoon soda in water
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
2 1/2 cups flour
2 cups raisins
Drop from a spoon on greased pan and bake in moderate oven.
Makes about three dozen large cookies
Vera Gifford Nott, Byron, Ill.
Northwestern University.
DATE BARS
1 cup brown sugar
1 tablespoon butter
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/3 teaspoon soda
134 cups flour
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 cup dates
1 cup nut meats
Mix and roll one-quarter inch thick and cut in strips. Place on
buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven.
Mary Hoy Lonnsbury, Crawfordsville, Ind.
De Pauw University.
DATE BARS
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 cup flour
teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 pound dates, chopped
1 cup walnut meats, chopped
Vanilla
Beat the egg yokes stiff and then add sugar and beat. Add the
stiffly beaten whites and the dry ingredients alternately to the
dough. Add the vanilla, dates and nuts to the mixture and spread
in a large flat pan and bake about thirty minutes. Cut in bars
as
soon as taken from the oven.
E. Violet MacLeod, North Tonawanda, N. Y.
University of Buffalo.
PALMER COOKIES
Dough
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 egg
1/2 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons, cream of tartar
Filling
1/2 cup dates, ground
1/2 cup raisins, ground
1/4 cup figs, ground
1/2 cup English walnuts,
1/4 oup black walnuts,
chopped
chopped
1 tablespoon cornstarch,
Grated rind and juice of
dissolved in water
one lemon
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup water
Mix all together and cook until thickened. Set away to cool.
Make dough like any butter cake.
Roll dough quite thin and cut with cookie cutter. Put one teaspoon
filling in center of cookie and place another cookie on top. Press
firmly around the edges. Bake in moderate oven.
Black walnuts may be omitted if desired.
Elizabeth Barnes, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
C
L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B O O K
81
FILLED COOKIES
Cookie
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup sour cream
teaspoon salt
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon baking powder
3 eggs
1 teaspoon soda
Add enough flour to roll. Line pan with very thin layer. Spread with
filling, and cover with another thin layer. Bake in a moderate oven.
Cut in squares.
Filling
1 cup sugar
1 package raisins or dates
2 tablespoons flour
ground
1 cup boiling water
Cook slowly ten minutes.
Vera Smollett Rogers, Minneapolis, Minn.
University of Minnesota.
DATE FILLED COOKIES
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon soda
2/3 cup butter
2 eggs
1 cup thick sour cream
3 1/2 cups flour
Filling
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup warm water
1 cup chopped dates
Cook and cool.
Roll cookies one-eighth inch thick, spread with a teaspoon of filling
and cover with second cookie; press the edges together and bake in
hot oven. Filling may have walnuts added or may be made with
raisins or figs.
Mildred Strong Castle, Joliet, Ill.
Illinois Wesleyan University.
BROWNIES
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup melted butter
2 eggs
2 tablespoons cocoa
3/4 cup flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup choppeld walnut meats
Mix sugar, cocoa and butter; add eggs, flour, vanilla and nut meats.
Put in a greased pan so that batter is one-half inch thick. Bake in
a slow oven. When cool, cut in oblong slices.
Doris Morton, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
HERMIT COOKIES
2 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 cup butter (soft)
1 cup chopped raisins
4 tablespoons sweet milk
1 teaspoon each of cloves,
1/2 teaspoon soda
cinnamon and allspice
Flour to roll
Cream sugar and butter; add eggs and beat; then dredged raisins,
milk and spices, soda. Add enough flour to roll dough and bake
in
moderate oven. Do not have much flour on cutting board.
Georgia Dickover, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
Syracuse University.
TORTONS
Whites of seven eggs beaten stiff; two cups pulverized sugar sifted
three or four times with half teaspoon cream tartar; flavor. Beat
twenty minutes. Put in well-greased muffin pans. Bake for one
hour in a slow oven.
Marie Hunter Calhoun, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ohio University.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
82
OATMEAL COOKIES
3/4 cup fat
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
1 cup raisins
5 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
2 cups flour
2 cups oatmeal
1/2 cup nut meats, chopped
Cream fat, add sugar, then beaten eggs. Cook raisins in the water
until tender. Add cinnamon and flour in which the soda has been
sifted. Add the oatmeal; lastly, raisins and nut meats dredged in
flour. Drop from a spoon on a greased pan and bake in hot oven.
Makes three dozen.
Lorraine Best Dietz, Ames, Ia.
Iowa State College.
RUSSIAN ROCKS
114 cup brown sugar
1 cup butter
3 eggs (beaten separately)
2 3/4 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda (in a little 2 teaspoons cinnamon
hot water)
3/4 teaspoon cloves
2 cups pecan nuts
Mix in the order given and drop on buttered tins and bake in a
moderate oven.
Gwendolyn Morris, Corvallis, Ore.
Oregon Agricultural College.
ROCKS
1 cup sugar
1 cup butter
2/3 teaspoon soda dissolved
2 eggs, well beaten
in 2/3 cup sour milk
2 cups oatmeal
1 cup raisins
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking powder sifted with 2 cups flour
Cream butter with sugar; add sour milk and soda. Then add rest
of ingredients in the order given. Drop by tablespoons on greased
tin and bake in moderate oven. Makes three dozen.
Elizabeth Banta, Low Point, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CHINESE CHEWS
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup pastry flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped dates
1 cup walnut meats
2 eggs
Mix dry ingredients. Add nuts and dates and beaten eggs. Spread
in thin sheet. Bake and do not allow to bake hard on the edges.
Cut in squares about 114 or 1 1/2 inches. When cool enough to
handle roll in balls and roll in granulated sugar.
Makes about 36.
J. McRuer, Toronto, Canada.
Toronto University.
VANITIES
2 eggs (well beaten)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or rose
Flour to mix very stiff
water
Mix and roll as thin as possible; cut in squares and fry in hot lard;
drain and sprinkle on both sides with powdered sugar.
Irma Strassen Brady, Chicago, Ill.
University of Wisconsin.
MACAROONS
Two egg whites, beaten stiff; add one cup sugar, one cup cocoanut,
three cups corn flakes and one cup chopped nuts. Drop from tea-
spoon onto a buttered pan and bake in a slow oven until a golden
brown. Allow to cool and remove with a knife. Makes 20.
Irma M. Fraser, Bloomington, Ill.
University of Illinois.
CLEE W o M A N S C o o K B o o K
93
SOFT GINGERBREAD
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup shortening
3 cups flour sifted with
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour milk
3 eggs
Cream butter and sugar. Sift flour and spices and add alternately
with the milk in which soda has been dissolved; then add one egg at
a time, beating vigorously with each additional egg. Pour into
buttered tin and bake in moderate oven.
Melba Burden, Sonora, Calif.
University of California.
GINGER BREAD
Put one cup molasses in bowl with one-half cup butter and one-half
cup granulated sugar. Pour over this one cup boiling water with
one large teaspoon soda dissolved in it, and let cool. Add one tea-
spoon each of cinnamon and ginger, 2 1/2 cups flour, two well-beaten
eggs (1 cup walnuts and one cup raisins if desired).
Josephine Compton, Ann Arbor, Mich.
University of Michigan.
DOUGHNUTS
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons butter
3 eggs
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 1/2 teaspoon salt
Flour to roll
Cream butter with sugar; add beaten eggs and mix well. Add 3 1/2
cups flour mixed and sifted with baking powder, salt and spices,
alternately with milk. Add enough more flour to make dough stiff
enough to roll. Roll one-fourth inch thick; cut and fry.
Alice C. Taylor, Cambridge, Mass.
Boston University.
DOUGHNUTS
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg or mace
About 5 cups flour
2 teaspoons cream tartar
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon salt
Beat eggs; add sugar and beat; then add milk, flavor and dry
ingredients. Dough should be as soft as can be handled. Roll to
one-quarter thickness, cut in rings and fry in hot fat until brown.
Drain and cool. Note. Fat is hot enough for frying when dough-
nuts come quickly to the top of fat. Avoid turning more than once.
Do not use old fats.
Ruth Gifford Vielehr, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
DROP CAKES
1 cup sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 cup shortening
2 cups flour
1 cup milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
Sift sugar, flour, baking powder and salt together; add melted
shortening to the milk, egg, and flavoring, mixed together. Combine
the dry and liquid mixtures and mix well. Bake in individual tins
for 20 minutes. Cover with
Jelly Meringue
White of 1 egg
1/2 cup currant or grape jelly
Put egg white and jelly together and beat with egg beater until stiff.
Edith Morgan, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
CLLEGE W o M A N S C o K B o o K
84
Pickles E Sauces
CHUNK PICKLES
Cut cucumbers in thick slices and put in salt water over night (or
three hours will do). Drain. For one quart of cucumbers, take one
pint of vinegar, one cup sugar, one teaspoon mustard seed, two
teaspoons mixed spices and a little stick cinnamon. Put vinegar
and sugar on fire. When hot put in cucumbers and stir until they
turn color. Then put in cans and cover tightly. When they have
cooled, pour off the juice and heat, pour over pickles and seal.
Louise Merriman Winner, Cleveland, Ohio.
Syracuse University.
PICKLES
Small pickles are preferable. Wash cucumbers and dry perfectly.
Fill jars with pickles. Mix:
1 gallon cider vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 cup ground mustard
1 cup salt
Heat through and pour over the pickles in the jars. Seal while hot.
Helen Fornecker, Akron, Ohio.
University of Akron.
FRENCH PICKLES
20 cucumbers (not larger
6 onions sliced
than three inches) sliced
1 pint vinegar
lengthwise
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon each of celery seed, mustard seed, pepper,
cinnamon, salt and tumeric.
Slice cucumbers, sprinkle with salt, let stand one hour. Then drain
add other ingredients and let come to a boil. Seal in Mason jars.
Marguerite Richert Jones, St. Louis, Mo.
University of Wisconsin.
SPICED PRUNES
1 pound prunes
Lemon
3-inch stick cinnamon
1 teaspoon cloves
1/2 cup cider vinegar
1/2 cup brown sugar
Soak prunes over night. Cook them slowly in the water in which
they have been soaked with a bag of spices and two slices of lemon.
When tender, add vinegar and brown sugar. Cook slowly until
syrup is thick.
Clara Jakes, La Fayette, Ind.
De Pauw University.
SPICED CURRANTS
5 pounds currants-picked
4 pounds sugar
1 pint vinegar
1 wine glass cloves
1 wine glass stick cinnamon
Boil one-half hour. Put in sterile glasses and seal.
Louise S. Woods, Oakland, Calif.
University of California.
BEET PICKLE
1 quart cooked beets
1 quart raw cabbage, chopped
1 cup horseradish
fine
2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon salt
1 teaspoon pepper
1/4 teaspoon red pepper
Vinegar to cover
Place chopped beets and cabbage in large bowl. Mix thoroughly
the horseradish, seasonings with some vinegar and pour over mix-
ture. Add enough more vinegar to cover pickle. Makes about one
gallon.
Elizabeth Banta, Low Point, Ill.
University of Illinois.
C o L L E G E W
o
M
A
N
S
C
O
o
K
B o o K
91
OLIVE OIL PICKLES
Wash and slice thin
4 dozen small cucumbers
1 cup olive oil
1 quart vinegar
1/2 cup black mustard seed
1/2 cup yellow mustard seed
1/2 cup salt
1 tablespoon celery seed
1/2 cup sugar
Pour over cucumbers and let stand over night. Seal in jars. No
cooking.
Rhoda Edmonds Weingartner, Kiel, Wis.
University of Wisconsin.
CELERY SAUCE
12 stalks celery
12 large onions
1 peck ripe tomatoes
4 red peppers
4 cups sugar
5 tablespoons salt
7 cups vinegar
Chop celery, onions and peppers fine. Add sliced tomatoes and other
ingredients. Cook two hours or until thick. Makes nine quarts.
Eunice Prutsman, Chicago, Ill.
De Pauw University.
CHILE SAUCE
5 dozen red tomatoes
1 dozen green peppers
6 large onions
10 cups vinegar
10 cups sugar
5 tablespoons salt
1 tablespogn ginger
1 tablespoon cloves
1 tablespoon pepper
Slice onion fine; chop tomatoes, peppers and onion all together and
boil one hour without any water. Then add remaining ingredients
and cook two hours longer. Place in jars and seal.
Marsha Allee Pearson, Chicago, Ill.
De Pauw University.
RHUBARB PICKLE
1 quart stewed rhubarb
1 quart sugar
1 quart chopped onions
1 quart vinegar
1 tablespoon ginger
1 tablespoon salt
Cook half an hour. Before taking off fire, add a little cinnamon,
allspice and cloves.
Margaret Dow, Toronto, Can.
University of Toronto.
MUSTARD PICKLES
1 quart large cucumbers
2 quarts tiny cucumbers,
sliced
whole
1 quart large onions, sliced
2 quarts small onions, whole
2 heads raw cauliflower, cut
3 green peppers
in sections
3 red peppers
Cover with brine made of one cup salt to one gallon of boiling water.
Let stand twenty-four hours.
Paste
1 cup flour
1/4 pound dry mustard
4 cups sugar
1/2 ounce tumeric
1/2 gallon cider vinegar
1/2 ounce celery seed
Cook paste ten minutes. Cook all together ten minutes. Drain salt
water off pickles and add to paste. Seal in pint mason jars. Makes
about eleven pints.
Helen Mc Illvaine, Los Angeles, Calif.
University of Southern California.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C 0 0 K B o o K
92
PEPPER PICKLES
6 onions
6 green peppers
6 red peppers
1 1/2 cup vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 spoon salt
Put onions and peppers through grinder together. Then pour
boiling water over and let stand five minutes and drain. Add the
vinegar, sugar and salt. Cook twenty minutes and seal while hot.
Viola Thurmond, Seattle, Wash.
University of Washington.
YUMMY PICKLES
(Uncooked)
1/2 peck ripe tomatoes
10 cents worth white mustard
3 ripe peppers
seed
3 green peppers
1 tablespoon ground black
Large bunch celery
pepper
(cut in bits)
3/4 cup salt
Dice vegetables and add seasoning mixed with vinegar. Pour over
all.
Gladys Murphy, Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern University.
INDIAN RELISH
2 quarts green tomatoes
6 tablespoons salt
(chopped and drained)
8 tablespoons sugar
1 cup celery (chopped fine)
6 teaspoons mustard seed
4 red peppers
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cloves
Combine ingredients (tomatoes, celery and peppers). Cover
with two cups boiling vinegar to which has been added salt, sugar,
mustard seed and spices. Bottle.
Kathryn Wilson, Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern University.
MUSTARD PICKLES
1 quart small cucumbers
1 quart green tomatoes
1 quart small button onions
1 large cauliflower, cut into
4 red peppers (cut fine)
flowerettes
Make a brine of four quarts water and one pint salt, pour it over the
vegetables, and let soak twenty-four hours.
Heat just enough to scald and turn into a colander to drain. Mix
one cup flour, six tablespoons ground mustard, one tablespoon tu-
meric with enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste, then add
one cup sugar and enough vinegar to make two quarts in all. Boil
this mixture until it thickens and is smooth, stirring all the time,
then add the vegetables and cook until well heated through.
Mildred Mitton, Dorchester, Mass.
Boston University.
SPANISH PICKLES
1 peck green tomatoes thin-
1/2 ounce allspice berries
ly sliced
1/2 ounce peppercorns
4 onions thinly sliced
1/2 cup brown mustard seed
1 cup salt
1 pound brown sugar
1/2 ounce cloves
Cider vinegar
4 green peppers finely chopped
Sprinkle alternate layers of tomatoes and onions with salt, and let
stand over night. In the morning drain, and put into a preserving
kettle; add the remaining ingredients using enough vinegar to cover
all. Heat gradually to boiling point and boil one-half hour.
Mary Matkin, Flatriver, Mo.
University of Missouri.
C o L L E G E W o M A N S C o o K B o o
K
93
Knox
Knox No. 3 Acidulated Gelatine is the "Busy Housekeeper's'' package. It contains
Lemon Flavor, the basis of all jellies, and saves time, labor and expense.
BAVARIAN CREAM No. 1
(Without eggs.)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup scalded milk.
1/2
cup cold water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 pint heavy cream.
1 teaspoonful rum, or
1/3 cup sugar.
2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, if desired.
Set bowl containing mixture in pan of cold water, and stir until mixture begins to
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in hot milk, then add sugar.
dipped in cold water, and chill.
thicken. Add cream, beaten until stiff, and flavoring. Turn into a mold, first
BAVARIAN CREAM No. 2
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup cold water.
1 cup sugar.
2 cups milk.
1 pint heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
Yolks of four eggs.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
and sugar; add soaked gelatine, and when mixture begins to thicken add cream and
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of milk, yolks of eggs
vanilla. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill.
CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM
ened chocolate to the hot milk.
Make same as Bavarian Cream No. 1, adding two squares of melted, unsweet-
COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM
coffee in place of one-half cup of the milk, and add one tablespoonful lemon juice.
Make same as Bavarian Cream No. 1, substituting one-half cup strong boiled
STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM
M envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup cold water.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
1 cup strawberry juice and pulp.
MA cup sugar.
12 cups heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
sugar, and when sugar is dissolved set bowl containing mixture in of ice water Add
ing mixture in hot water. Strain into strawberry juice mixed with lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve by standing cup contain-
lined and stir until mixture begins to thicken; then fold in cream. Turn pan into wet mold
berries and leaves. A delicious cream may also be made with canned strawberries.
with strawberries cut in halves, and chill. Garnish with fruit, selected straw-
Strawberry
Bavarian Cream
was
Knox
COCOANUT CREAM
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup shredded cocoanut.
cup cold water. 3 eggs.
Few grains salt.
cup sugar. 2 cups milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make custard of yolks of eggs, sugar
and milk; remove from range and add soaked gelatine. When mixture begins to
set, add cocoanut, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, salt and flavoring. Line a mold
with sections of orange, pour in mixture and chill.
MACAROON CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
2 cup cold water.
Few grains salt.
3 eggs.
ant cup pounded macaroons.
2 cups milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of egg yolks, sugar,
salt, and milk. Add soaked gelatine to hot custard, and when nearly cool, add whites
of eggs, beaten until stiff, macaroons and vanilla. Turn into individual molds,
first dipped in cold water, and chill. For "French Cream" add one square chocolate.
PRUNE ORIENTAL CREAM (Illustrated on Page 3)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
pint heavy cream.
cup cold water.
cup milk.
cup scalded milk.
cup cooked prunes, cut in pieces.
2 cup sugar.
cup chopped figs.
Whites of two eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in scalded milk, and add
sugar. Strain into a bowl, set in pan containing ice water, and stir constantly until
mixture begins to thicken; then add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, heavy cream,
diluted with milk and beaten until stiff, prunes and figs. Turn into a wet mold, the
bottom and sides of which are garnished with halves of cooked prunes, and chill.
Remove from mold to serving dish, and garnish with whipped cream (sweetened
and flavored with vanilla), forced through a pastry bag and tube, and chopped
pistachio nuts.
SPANISH CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar (scant).
3 cups milk.
teaspoonful salt.
Whites of three eggs.
1 teaspoonful vanilla, or
Yolks of three eggs.
3 tablespoonfuls wine, if desired.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup milk. Scald remaining milk, and pour slowly on
the yolks of eggs well beaten. Add sugar and salt and return to double boiler.
Cook until mixture thickens somewhat. Remove from stove, and add gelatine and
whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Flavor, and turn into individual molds, first dipped
in cold water, and chill. Serve with whipped cream. More gelatine will be required
if large molds are used.
COLUMBIA PUDDING (Illustrated on Page 6)
Cover the bottem of a fancy mold with Wine Jelly mixture. Line upper part of
mold with halves of figs, cut crosswise and soaked in jelly mixture five minutes,
having seed sides next to mold. When both are set fill with Spanish Cream mix-
ture and chill. When ready to serve remove to serving dish and garnish with
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla (forced through a pastry bag
and tube) and sections of glacéd cherries.
CANTON CREAM
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 tablespoonf ul brandy.
1
cup cold water. 1 cup milk.
2 tablespoonf uls ginger syrup.
Yolks of two eggs. Few grains salt.
cup Canton ginger, cut in pieces.
1 tablespoonful wine.
1 pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in cold water, and add to custard made of milk, eggs, sugar, and
salt. Strain, chill in pan of ice water, add flavorings, and when mixture begins to
thicken add cream, beaten until stiff.
not
12
on
-
Knox)
LEMON SPONGE OR SNOW PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
cup cold water.
cup lemon juice.
1 cup boiling water.
Whites of two eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar,
lemon juice and grated rind of one lemon, strain, and set aside; occasionally stir
mixture, and when quite thick, beat with wire spoon or whisk until frothy; add
whites of eggs beaten stiff, and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape.
Pile by spoonfuls on glass dish. Chill and serve with boiled custard. A very attrac-
tive dish may be prepared by coloring half the mixture red with tablet found in each
package.
BANANA SPONGE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
cup cold water.
Whites of two eggs, beaten stiff.
1 cup banana pulp.
1 dozen blanched Pistachio nuts,
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
finely chopped.
Soak
gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put banana pulp, lemon juice and
sugar in saucepan, and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add soaked
gelatine, and stir until cool. When mixture begins to thicken, fold in whites of eggs,
beaten until stiff, turn into wet mold or paper cases, and sprinkle with chopped nuts.
PINEAPPLE SPONGE (Illustrated on Page 23)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains salt.
Yolks of three eggs.
cup grated canned pineapple.
Grated rind of one lemon.
cup cold water.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
MP
cup heavy cream.
cup sugar.
Whites of three eggs.
Beat yolks of eggs slightly, and add grated rind, lemon juice, sugar, and salt.
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Remove from
range, and add gelatine (which has soaked in cold water five minutes) and pineapple.
When mixture begins to thicken, add cream, beaten until stiff, and whites of eggs,
beaten until stiff. Turn into a mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove
from mold to serving dish, and garnish with whole and half slices of canned pine-
apple (around the edge of which there is a piping of whipped cream, sweetened and
flavored with vanilla), glacéd cherries, and green leaves.
MOCHA SPONGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups strong boiled coffee.
1 cup cold water.
N° cup sugar. Whites of three eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and add to hot coffee; then add sugar.
Strain into pan, set in larger pan of ice water, cool slightly, then beat, using a wire
whisk, until quite stiff. Add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and continue the beat-
ing until mixture will hold its shape. Turn into a mold, first dipped in cold water.
Chill thoroughly, remove from mold and serve with sugar and thin cream.
MAPLE SPONGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup hot water.
11 cups cold water.
Whites of 2 eggs.
2 cups brown or maple sugar.
1 cup chopped nut meats.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put sugar and hot water in saucepan,
bring to boiling point and let boil ten minutes. Pour syrup gradually on soaked
gelatine. Cool, and when nearly set, add whites of eggs beaten until stiff, and nut
meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve with custard
made of yolks of eggs, sugar, a few grains of salt, milk, and flavoring.
CHERRY SPONGE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine
11 cups canned cherries.
A cup cold water.
1 cup canned cherry juice.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup sugar. Whites of two eggs.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in hot cherry juice. Add
cherries, stoned and cut in halves, sugar and lemon juice. When mixture begins to
set add whites of eggs. beaten until stiff. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water,
and chill. Garnish with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, and
chopped cherries. Other canned fruits may be substituted for the cherries
12
des
Knox
MARSHMALLOW PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Whites of 3 eggs.
cup cold water.
11 teaspoonfuls vanilla.
cup boiling water.
Macaroons.
1 cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar,
and as soon as dissolved, set bowl containing mixture in pan of ice water; then add
whites of eggs and vanilla and beat until mixture thickens. Turn into a shallow
pan, first dipped in cold water, and let stand until thoroughly chilled. Remove from
pan and cut in pieces the size and shape of marshmallows; then roll in macaroons
which have been dried and rolled. Serve with sugar and cream.
NEWPORT PUDDING
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup boiling water.
1} tablespoonfuls Sauterne.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 tablespoonfuls sherry.
1/2 cup cold water.
Green coloring.
Whites of three eggs.
Red coloring.
boiling point, and let boil three minutes. Remove from range and add gelatine
Put sugar in small saucepan, pour over boiling water, set on range, bring to
then add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and continue the beating twenty minutes.
which has soaked in cold water five minutes. Beat until mixture begins to stiffen;
one-half color the sherry and color pink; to remaining third add remaining sherry and
Divide the mixture into thirds. To first third add Sauterne, to second third add
pink, then the white, then the green. Chill thoroughly.
green. Arrange in layers in a fancy mold, first dipped in cold water, first the
MARSHMALLOW CREAM
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup cold water.
1 cup sugar.
cup boiling water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Whites of four eggs.
1 teaspoonful lemon extract.
11 squares chocolate.
over Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes. Add boiling water and
gelatine. teakettle until dissolved. Cool, but do not chill. Stir sugar into dissolved place
sugar, a To few spoonfuls at a time, beating constantly. Divide quickly gelatine into and
Beat the whites of eggs very light, and to the eggs add the
flavor vanilla; the to the second part add melted chocolate and vanilla flavoring, flavor and
parts. with the first part add part of the pink color found in package and three
third part with lemon.
to made the with the Chill, cut in slices and serve with or without whipped cream cherries
Mold white. in layers in square mold, adding nuts to the pink part and red
yolks of eggs. Attractive if served with ice cream instead or of sauce cake.
Marshmallow
Cream
IIII
1A
Knox)
ANGEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
M dozen rolled stale macaroons.
1 pint heavy cream.
1 dozen marshmallows, cut in small pieces.
Vanilla or sherry.
2 tablespoonfuls chopped candied cherries.
cup cold water.
1/2 lb. blanched and chopped almonds.
cup boiling water.
Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, and add sugar. When
mixture is cold, add cream, beaten until stiff, almonds, macaroons, marshmallows
and candied cherries. Flavor with vanilla or sherry. Turn into a mold, first dipped
in cold water, and chill. Remove from mold and serve with angelicake.
This dessert may be made more elaborate by cutting the top from an angel
cake and removing some of the inside, leaving a case with three-fourths inch walls,
then filling case with mixture, replacing top of cake, covering with frosting, and gar-
nishing with candied cherries and blanched almonds.
GRAPE JUICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup cold water.
11 cups heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
cup boiling water.
cup sugar.
1 cup grape juice.
Lady fingers.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Add
grape juice, lemon juice and sugar. Stir until mixture begins to thicken; thenfoldin
cream. Turn into mold lined with lady fingers. Remove from mold and garnish
with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, and candied violets.
CHARLOTTE RUSSE
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine
1 4 cup cold water.
1} cups milk.
1/2 pint heavy cream.
2 eggs.
2 tablespoonfuls sugar.
3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
Few grains salt.
1/4 teaspoonful vanilla.
Sponge cake.
Scald milk and add gradually to yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, and mixed with
sugar and salt. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens,
then add gelatine, soaked in cold water. Strain and add whites of eggs, beaten until
stiff. Set pan in larger pan of ice water and stir, scraping from bottom and sides of
pan, until mixture begins to thicken. Then add cream, beaten until stiff, and mixed
with sugar and vanilla. Line round paper cases with strips of sponge cake, using
muffin rings to keep cases in shape. Fill with mixture and chill. Remove from cases.
center with a cube of jelly.
and garnish tops with four narrow strips of cake, radiating from center, and garnish
INDIVIDUAL CHARLOTTE RUSSE
Line a sherbet glass with lady fingers, leaving a small space between them. Fill
cherries. with any Bavarian Cream mixture and chill. Garnish with red and green Maraschino
Individual
Charlotte Russe
--
Knox
ORANGE CHARLOTTE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
cup cold water.
1 cup orange juice and pulp.
cup boiling water.
Whites of three eggs.
1 cup sugar.
Lady fingers.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Add
sugar, and when dissolved add lemon juice. Strain, cool slightly and add orange juice
and pulp. When mixture begins to stiffen beat, using a wire whisk, until light; then
add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and beat thoroughly. Turn into mold lined
with lady fingers. One pint whipped cream may be used in place of whites of eggs.
APPLE CHARLOTTE
Make same as Orange Charlotte, using cooked apple pulp in place of orange
juice and pulp.
PEACH SNOW BALLS
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup boiling water.
cup cold water.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1 cup canned peaches, apricots or pine-
Whites of three eggs.
apple, pressed through a sieve.
Make same as Orange Charlotte, and mold in egg cups.
ALMOND CARAMEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
lb. blanched almonds, finely chopped.
cup cold water.
1 pint heavy cream, beaten stiff.
1 cup granulated sugar.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1/2 cup boiling water.
1 dozen lady fingers.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Let stand over hot water until dis-
solved. Caramelize the sugar and add boiling water very gradually. Cool slightly
and add dissolved gelatine. When mixture begins to thicken add nut meats, cream
and vanilla. Pour into mold lined with lady fingers and chill.
BLANC MANGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 teaspoonful vanilla, or
31 cups milk.
1 tablespoonful rum.
cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in half cup milk five minutes. Scald remaining milk with sugar,
and add soaked gelatine. Strain, cool slightly, add flavoring and turn into a mold
first dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve with currant, strawberry, or any pre-
ferred jelly. Accompany with sugar and thin cream, or boiled custard. Substitute
cream for the milk and the dish becomes "Ivory Jelly."
CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
cup cold water.
Few grains salt.
1 quart milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 OZS. grated unsweetened chocolate.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Scald milk and add sugar, grated
chocolate and salt. When sugar is dissolved, add soaked gelatine; then add flavor-
ing. Turninto mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Serve with whipped cream,
sweetened and flavored with vanilla.
CHARTREUSE OF JELLY
Cut out the center of a round sponge cake, leaving the bottom and sides thick
enough. to hold a quart of jelly. Prepare a lemon, orange, strawberry or wine
jelly, and when it is cold and just ready to form, turn into the cake and set aside
in a cool place or on ice. When ready to serve cover the top with the chilled froth
from a cup of double cream and a cup of milk beaten with a whip churn. Flavor
the cream with vanilla or wine and add one-fourth cup of confectioner's sugar before
whipping.
III
16
M
Knox
GRAPE JUICE SOUFFLÉ
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Whites of four eggs.
1 pint grape juice, sweetened.
Also cup heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in grape juice ten minutes, then heat in double boiler until
gelatine has dissolved. Strain into bowl set in saucepan containing ice water, and
when mixture begins to thicken, fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Half fill
individual mold, first dipped in cold water, with mixture. To remainder add
cream, beaten until stiff. Fill molds with cream mixture, and chill. Remove from
molds to serving dish, and garnish with whipped cream (sweetened and flavored
delicately with vanilla), candied violets and green leaves.
COFFEE SOUFFLÉ
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
A teaspoonful salt
11 cups strong boiled coffee.
3 eggs.
cup milk.
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla.
aux
cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup cold coffee. Mix remaining coffee, milk and one-
half of the sugar and heat in double boiler. Add remaining sugar, salt and yolks of
eggs, slightly beaten. Cook until mixture thickens. Remove from range, add
softened gelatine, whites of eggs beaten until stiff, and vanilla. Mold, chill, and
serve with cream.
RICE MOLD WITH PINEAPPLE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains salt.
cup cold water
1 cup cooked rice.
No
cup scalded pineapple juice.
1 cup whipped cream.
cup sugar.
1 tablespoonf ul lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve by standing cup in hot
water. Add pineapple juice, sugar and salt to rice. Strain into this the gelatine,
and mix thoroughly; cool slightly, and add whipped cream and lemon juice. Turn
into mold lined with slices of canned pineapple. Chill, and serve with or without
whipped cream. Other fruits may be used in place of pineapple.
AN EASTER DESSERT
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sugar.
cup cold water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 1/2 cups milk or cream, scalded.
Few grains salt.
Soften the gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve in the hot milk;
add the sugar and flavoring. Wash a dozen large eggs, make a pin hole in one end
of each shell, a larger opening in the other end, then shake out the contents from
the shell; rinse the shells clean and drain; pour the chilled but liquid pudding
through a funnel into the shells and set them in an upright position in a pan of
broken ice or salt. When ready to serve, remove the shells and arrange the contents
in a nest of orange, lemon or wine jelly, or spun sugar may be used for the nest. Serve
with whipped cream.
NOTE-If desired, divide the above mixture into three equal parts, leaving mixture as
it is for white eggs, adding dissolved chocolate to the second part to make brown eggs, and
to the third part adding a small portion of the pink vegetable color tablet found in each
package, after dissolving in a little hot water, to make pink eggs.
NUT FRAPPÉ
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup cream.
cup cold water.
cup milk.
cup sugar.
White of one egg.
1 cup cooked pineapple and strawberries. 1 cup chopped nuts.
Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve over hot water. Add
dissolved gelatine to cream, milk and sugar and stir in beaten white of egg. When
cold, add the pineapple and strawberries which have been chopped in small pieces,
also the chopped nuts. Serve ice cold in sherbet glasses.
CHE
Knox
of
ORANGE TRIFLE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup orange juice.
MA cup cold water.
Grated rind of one orange.
1/2 cups boiling water.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine five minutes in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar,
orange juice, grated rind and lemon juice and strain. Pour one-half the mixture into
a shallow pan, dipped in cold water, and chill. Set bowl containing remaining mix-
ture in pan of ice water and stir constantly, until mixture begins to thicken; then
fold in heavy cream, beaten until stiff. Turn into a ring mold, first dipped in cold
water, and chill. Remove mixture from ring mold to serving dish and garnish with
glacéd cherries, cut to represent flowers, and angelica cut to represent leaves and
stems. Fill center with first part removed from pan and cut in cubes.
ST. REGIS PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup boiling water.
Few grains of salt.
cup cold water.
cup seedless raisins.
cup sugar.
cup brandy.
cup sherry wine.
cup canned apricots, cut in pieces.
cup apricot syrup.
Bring hot water and sugar to boiling point and let boil one minute. Add sherry
wine, apricot syrup, lemon juice, salt and gelatine, soaked in cold water. To raisins
add brandy and cook in double boiler until raisins are plump. Add to jelly mixture
with apricots cut in small pieces. Turn into a mold, chill thoroughly, remove from
mold and serve with or without whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla.
CHOCOLATE PLUM PUDDING
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup sliced citron or nuts, as preferred.
Als cup cold water.
AX cup currants.
1 cup sugar.
1} squares chocolate.
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 pint milk.
1 cup seeded raisins.
Pinch salt.
1/2 cup dates or figs, if desired.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put milk in double boiler, add
melted chocolate, and when scalding point is reached add sugar, salt and soaked
gelatine. Remove from fire and when mixture begins to thicken add vanilla, fruit
and nut meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to
flavored with vanilla
serving dish and garnish with holly. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened, and
Chocolate
Plum Pudding
W
18
7007
Knox
IMPORTANT-Lemon Juice is used in a number of recipes in this book. For those who
prefer our Acidulated package, the Lemon Flavor contained therein may be used in
place of lemon juice. In some cases the housekeeper will have to use her own judgment
as to how much to use and flavor the dish according to taste.
MACEDOINE PUDDING
Als tablespoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. lb. marshmallows, cut in pieces.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
1 cup heavy cream.
2 tablespoonfuls boiling water.
2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
cup Maraschino cherries.
teaspoonful vanilla.
1/2 cup English walnut meats, cut in pieces.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Beat
cream until stiff, add powdered sugar, vanilla and dissolved gelatine. When mix-
ture begins to stiffen, add chopped cherries, nut meats and marshmallows. Turn
into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill.
PEACH CABINET PUDDING
1/20 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups milk.
1 can peaches.
Yolks of three eggs.
1/2 cup powdered sugar.
Whites of three eggs.
2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine.
cup sugar.
1 tablespoonful brandy.
teaspoonful salt.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
Drain peaches. cut in quarters, sprinkle with powdered sugar and pour over
sherry and brandy. Make a custard of milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt, and just be-
fore removing from fire add gelatine soaked in cold water. Strain, and when slightly
cooled add one-half cup liquor drained from peaches. Stir until mixture begins to
thicken, then add whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Line a mold with peaches, pour in
custard and chill.
ROYAL PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup cold water.
teaspoonful salt.
2 cups scalded milk.
1 tablespoonful brandy or teaspoonf ul
vanilla.
Yolks of three eggs.
5 lady fingers.
cup sugar.
6 macaroons.
sugar and salt. Strain, cool slightly and add flavoring. Place mold in pan of ice
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and add to custard made of milk, eggs
water. Decorate with candied cherries and angelica; cover with mixture,
carefully by spoonfuls. When firm, add layer of Tady fingers, first soaked in custard, adding
layer is firm before another is added. Chill, remove to serving dish and garnish with
then layer of macaroons, also soaked in custard. Repeat, care being taken that each
whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, and candied cherries.
Apple and
Grape Fruit Salad
(See Page 29)
III
19
7005
Knox
VANILLA PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar.
cup cold milk.
2 tablespoonfuls vanilla.
1 quart scalded milk.
Few grains salt.
1 quart cream.
Soak gelatine in cold milk five minutes and dissolve in scalded milk. Add sugar,
and when sugar is dissolved strain mixture into cream, and add flavoring. Freeze,
using three parts finely crushed ice to one part rock salt. Serve with maple sauce
and chopped pecan nut meats. If part of the cream is whipped and added when
partly frozen, it will improve it.
CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 1 quart thin cream.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 squares unsweetened chocolate.
Few grains salt.
1/2 cup boiling water.
1 tablespoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Melt chocolate and add boiling water
gradually, while stirring constantly. Add soaked gelatine, and when dissolved add
remaining ingredients. Freeze.
CARAMEL ICE CREAM
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
13 cups sugar.
1 quart milk.
1/80 teaspoonful salt.
1 pint cream.
1 tablespoonful vanilla.
Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk ten minutes. Caramelize one cup sugar
by putting in a granite saucepan and place over hot fire, stirring constantly until
melted and of the color of maple syrup. Add one cup hot water and simmer on back
of stove until of the consistency of a thick syrup. Add 3 cup sugar to the balance
of the milk and scald. Add dissolved gelatine, salt and the caramel. When cold
add flavoring and cream; strain and freeze. If preferred, the cream may be whipped
and added when the mixture is partly frozen.
NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar.
1/2 cup cold milk.
1 quart thin cream.
3/2 cups scalded milk.
Whites of three eggs.
Yolks of three eggs.
3 tablespoonfuls vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make custard of milk, yolks of
eggs and sugar. Add soaked gelatine and cream, and strain. When cold, add va-
nilla and freeze to a mush. Add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and continue the
freezing. Serve with Chocolate Sauce and chopped walnut meats.
CANTALOUPE FRAPPÉ
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
teaspoonful salt.
1/4 cup cold water.
cup sherry wine.
2 large cantaloupes.
1 teaspoonful lemon juice.
1/2 cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Dissolve over hot water and strain
into cantaloupe pulp, of which there should be two cups. Add remaining ingredients
and freeze. Serve in the rind of the melons, cut to represent baskets with or without
handles. To prepare the cantaloupe pulp, remove seeds, scrape pulp from rind and
force through a purée strainer.
CRANBERRY FRAPPÉ
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 quart cranberries.
1 cup cold water.
2/2 cups sugar.
3 cups boiling water.
4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold'water five minutes. Cook cranberries in boiling water until
soft; then force through a purée strainer. Add soaked gelatine, sugar and lemon
juice, and freeze. A delicious accompaniment to roast turkey.
III
21
III
Knox
CUSTARD ICE CREAM
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 1 cup sugar (scant measure).
1 quart milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
3 eggs.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of milk. Make a custard of the milk, yolks
of eggs, sugar and salt, and dissolve the gelatine in the hot custard. Strain, and
when cold add flavoring and freeze to a mush. Add whites of eggs, beaten until
stiff, and continue the freezing.
FRUIT SHERBET
(Economical)
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine (scant measure).
1 cups sugar.
3 cups rich milk.
1 orange.
1 lemon.
Grate the outside of both orange and lemon. Squeeze out the juice and add
to this the sugar. Soak the gelatine in part of a cup of milk for five minutes, and
dissolve by standing in pan of hot water. Stir into the rest of the milk. When it
begins to freeze add the fruit juice and sugar, and fruit of any kind if desired. This
makes a large allowance for five persons.
MILK SHERBET
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 11 cups sugar.
1 quart milk.
Juice of three lemons.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup of the milk five minutes. Dissolve over hot water
and strain into remainder of milk. Mix lemon juice and sugar, add slowly to milk
mixture, and freeze. For a richer sherbet use half cream and half milk.
GRAPE JUICE SHERBET
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 pint grape juice.
cup cold water.
4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1} cups boiling water.
cup orange juice.
1 cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a syrup by boiling sugar and
hot water ten minutes, and add soaked gelatine. Cool slightly and add fruit
juices; then freeze. Serve in sherbet glasses and garnish with candied violets or
fruit, if desired.
Grape
Juice
Sherbet
22
Knox
Knox No. 3 Acidulated Gelatine is the "Busy Housekeeper's" package. It
contains Lemon Flavor, the basis of all jellies, and saves time, labor and expense.
ORANGE CREAM SHERBET
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 1} cups orange juice.
1/2 cup cold water.
1 pint heavy cream.
1} cups boiling water.
MA cup sugar.
1} cups sugar.
2 eggs.
Grated rind of two oranges.
Few grains salt.
1 cup lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Dissolve gelatine and sugar in
boiling water; add orange rind, lemon juice and orange juice. Turn into ice
cream freezer and freeze to a mush. Beat cream until stiff, and add sugar and salt.
Separate yolks from whites of eggs. Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored and
whites until stiff, and add to cream. Turn into frozen mixture and continue the
freezing.
WATERMELON SHERBET
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar.
1/2 cup cold water.
1 cup orange juice.
4 cups hot water.
2 cups watermelon cubes.
Soak gelatine in cold water for five minutes. Make syrup by boiling hot water
and sugar ten minutes and add soaked gelatine and orange juice. Strain, chill and
freeze to mush. Add watermelon cubes and let stand one hour.
GRAPE FRUIT SHERBET
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 2 cups grape fruit juice.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1 cup boiling water.
Few grains salt.
cup sugar.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a syrup by boiling water and
sugar one minute. Add soaked gelatine, cool slightly and add remaining ingredi-
ents. Strain and freeze, using three parts finely crushed ice and one part rock salt.
CLUFF PUNCH
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
4 tablespoonfuls lemon iuice.
4 cups cold water.
2/2 tablespoonful rum.
2 cups sugar.
1 cup champagne,
Juice of six oranges.
MP cup brandy.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold water five minutes. Make a syrup
by boiling the remaining water and sugar twenty minutes. Add soaked gelatine,
cool and add fruit juices. Freeze to a mush, then add rum, champagne and brandy,
and continue freezing. Let stand two hours.
Pineapple
Sponge
(See Page 13)
23
CBB
Knox
PINEAPPLE MOUSSE
1 teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Als cup sugar.
3 tablespoonfuls cold water.
1 tablespoonfu lemon juice.
1 cup scalded pineapple juice.
1 pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes and dissolve in hot pineapple juice.
Add sugar and lemon juice, and when cool add cream beaten stiff. Beat mixture
until stiff, using an egg beater, and fill wet mold to overflowing with mixture. Ad-
just cover, pack in rock salt and finely crushed ice, using equal parts, and let stand
four hours. Remove from mold to serving dish and garnish with half slices of
canned pineapple and candied cherries.
CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
cup cold water.
21 cups heavy cream.
cup boiling water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 squares unsweetened chocolate.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Melt chocolate in boiling water and
add soaked gelatine; then add sugar and vanilla. Cool and add cream, beaten stiff.
Fill a chilled mold with mixture, having mixture overflow mold, adjust cover, pack
in rock salt and finely crushed ice, using equal parts, and let stand four hours.
RASPBERRY MOUSSE
1
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
3 tablespoonfuls sugar.
AP
cup
cold
water. 1/4 cup boiling water.
1 cup raspberry juice.
1 pint heavy cream.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling water and cool.
Beat cream until stiff and add dissolved gelatine and remaining ingredients and
whole berries if desired. Fill chilled mold with mixture, adjust cover, pack in
rock salt and finely crushed ice, using equal parts, and let stand three hours.
CAFE A LA CARLOS
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
1/8 cup cold water.
Yolks of three eggs.
1 cup strong coffee, boiled.
1 pint heavy cream, beaten stiff.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of coffee, sugar and
yolks of eggs, and add soaked gelatine. Cool, add cream and freeze. Serve in parfait
glasses; garnish with whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla, forced
through a pastry bag and tube, and glacéd cherries or any fancy fruit.
MARRON BISQUE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 pint heavy cream.
cup cold milk.
1 cup sugar.
1/2 cup scalded milk.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 eggs.
1 cup prepared French chestnuts.
Soak gelatine in cold milk ten minutes. Add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, to
scalded milk; then add soaked gelatine. Add sugar and vanilla to cream and com-
bine mixtures; then add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and chestnuts. Fill mold
with mixture, having mixture overflow mold, adjust cover, pack in salt and ice,
using equal parts, and let stand three and one-half hours.
BAKED ICE CREAM
Whites of six eggs.
Thin sheet sponge cake.
6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 quarts vanilla Philadelphia brick ice
cream.
Beat whites of eggs until stiff and add sugar gradually while beating constantly.
then add vanilla. Cover a board with letter paper, lay on sponge cake, turn ice
cream on cake, having cake extend one-fourth inch beyond cream. Cover with
meringue and spread smoothly. Place on grate and brown meringue quickly in
hot oven; slip from paper to serving dish.
24
W
CABE
Knox
PINEAPPLE BOMB
PART I.
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
3 cup sugar.
1 can sliced pineapple.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
1 cup water.
Pink coloring.
Press juice from pineapple and add to syrup made by cooking water and sugar
five minutes; then add gelatine soaked in cold water five minutes. Color pink,
strain and freeze.
PART II.
tablespoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. teaspoonful vanilla.
cup medium cream.
cup powdered sugar.
Yolks of two eggs.
1 cup candied fruit, cherries and plums.
3 tablespoonfuls sugar.
Brandy.
1 tablespoonful cold water.
1 cup heavy cream.
Few grains salt.
Scald medium cream and add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, mixed with sugar
and salt. Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens, add gelatine soaked in cold
water and strain. Set bowl containing mixture in pan containing cold water, and
when beginning to thicken fold in heavy cream, beaten until stiff, vanilla, powdered
sugar, candied fruit, cut in pieces and soaked several hours in brandy to cover.
Line a three-pint brick mold, first dipped in cold water, with Part I and fill with
Part II, to overflow mold. Adjust cover pack in rock salt and finely crushed ice,
using equal parts, and let stand two hours.
ANGEL PARFAIT WITH CANDIED FRUIT
1
teaspoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine. 2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
Whites of two eggs, beaten dry.
cup candied fruit cut fine.
1 cups heavy cream, beaten light.
cup granulated sugar.
3 tablespoonfuls wine or thick syrup.
cup water.
Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes or longer. Boil the sugar and
half cup of water to the soft ball degree (as in making boiled frosting), pour in a
fine stream onto the whites of eggs, beating constantly meanwhile; add the gela-
tine, stir over cold or ice water until the mixture is cold and begins to set, then
fold in the cream and the fruit and flavoring. The fruit will be softer if soaked in the
wine or syrup some hours or over night. Turn into a quart mold, lined with paper,
cover securely and let stand in equal measures of ice and salt about three hours.
NESSELRODE PUDDING
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup prepared French chestnuts, broken
cup cold water.
in pieces.
2 cups milk.
1 cup pineapple syrup.
Yolks of four eggs.
1 cup candied fruits, cut in pieces and
1 cups sugar.
soaked in wine to cover.
1/2 teaspoonful salt.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 pint cream.
1 tablespoonful sherry wine, if desired.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make a custard of milk, yolks of
eggs, sugar and salt, and add soaked gelatine. Cool and add remaining ingredients.
Fill wet mold to overflowing with mixture, adjust cover, pack in rock salt and finely
crushed ice, and let stand three hours.
RICE PARFAIT
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup sugar.
2 cups hot boiled rice.
teaspoonful salt.
1/2 cups milk.
1 cup chopped nut meats.
-1 cup cream.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in milk ten minutes and dissolve in hot rice. Add sugar and salt,
and when cool fold in cream, beaten until stiff. Add nut meats and Iflavoring. Turn
into a mold, and pack in ice and salt.
MAPLE RICE PARFAIT
Make same as Rice Parfait, using maple sugar in place of white sugar.
Salads
and
Savories
IMPORTANT-Lemon Juice is used in a number of recipes in this book. For those who
prefer our Acidulated package, the Lemon Flavor contained therein may be used in
place of the lemon juice. In some cases the housekeeper will have to use her
judgment as to how much to use and flavor the dish according to taste.
own
PERFECTION SALAD
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 cup cold water.
1/2 cup sugar.
3 cup mild vinegar.
1 teaspoonful salt.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
1 cup cabbage, finely shredded.
2 cups boiling water.
2 cups celery, cut in small pieces.
2 pimentoes, cut in small pieces.
ingredients. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to
water, sugar, and salt. Strain, and when mixture begins to stiffen, add remaining
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Add vinegar, lemon juice, boiling
of lettuce or endive. Garnish with mayonnaise dressing, or cut in cubes, and serve bed
in cases made of red or green peppers, or turn into molds fined with canned pimentoes.
A delicious accompaniment to cold sliced chicken or veal.
TUNA FISH SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
da
cup cold water.
cup boiled salad dressing.
cup tuna fish.
teaspoonful salt.
cup chopped celery.
teaspoonful paprika.
green pepper, finely chopped.
2 teaspoonfuls vinegar.
2 tablespoonfuls chopped olives.
Few grains cayenne.
been Cool, and add tuna fish, separated into flakes, celery, pepper (from which seeds have
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and add to hot boiled salad dressing.
leaves, and garnish with slices cut from pimolas, diamond shaped pieces cut from
molds, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove from molds to nests of lettuce
removed), olives, salt, paprika, vinegar, and cayenne. Turn into six individual
green peppers, celery tips, and watercress.
Tuna
Fish Salad
<
(nox
JEWEL SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup vinegar.
cup cucumber.
cup pineapple syrup.
cup canned sliced pineapple.
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar.
cup cold water.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
cup boiling water. 1/4 cup sugar.
Few grains salt.
Pare, chop, and drain cucumber; there should be one-half cup. Chop and drain
pineapple; there should be one-half cup. Mix cucumber and pineapple, and add
gelatine, which has been soaked in cold water and dissolved in boiling water; then
add remaining ingredients. Turn into individual molds, first dipped in cold water,
and chill. Remove from molds to nest of lettuce leaves. Accompany with mayon-
naise dressing.
CHEESE SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup heavy cream, beaten until stiff.
cup cold water. 2 cream cheeses.
3,
teaspoonful salt.
cup American cheese, cut in very small
teaspoonful paprika.
pieces.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve over hot water. Work
cream cheese until smooth, add American cheese, whipped cream, and soaked gela-
tine. Season with salt and paprika, turn into individual molds, first dipped in cold
water, and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves, and garnish with mayonnaise.
CUCUMBER SALAD
n envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 sprig parsley.
2 cups chicken stock, well seasoned.
2 cucumbers.
1 slice onion.
Green coloring.
Soak gelatine in one cup stock. To remaining stock add onion, parsley and
cucumbers, pared and grated. Cover and let stand two hours. Heat gradually to
the boiling point, add gelatine and color light green. Let stand until nearly cold,
then of strain into individual paper cases or molds, in the bottom of which is a slice
dan almonds.
cucumber. Garnish tops with mayonnaise dressing and halves of blanched Jor-
SALMON MOLD
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
Few grains cayenne.
Yolks of two eggs.
1/ tablespoonfuls melted butter
2 teaspoonfuls salt.
cup milk.
1 teaspoonful mustard.
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar.
1 can salmon.
salt, boiler, mustard, and cayenne; then add butter, milk, and vinegar. Cook in
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Mix egg yolks, slightly beaten, with
separated move to bed into of flakes. crisp lettuce Turn into leaves. fish mold, first dipped in cold water, chill, salmon, and're-
stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Add soaked gelatine and double
Salmon Mold
was
Knox)
FROZEN TOMATO CREAM SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
teaspocnful peppercorns.
cup cold water.
1 slice onion.
1 can tomatoes, quart capacity.
Sprig parsley.
2 cloves.
Few grains cayenne.
1 allspice berry.
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar.
1/2 teaspoonful celery seed.
MA pint heavy cream.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Cook tomatoes with cloves, allspice
berry, salt, celery seed, peppercorns, onion, parsley, and cayenne, ten minutes.
Add soaked gelatine, cool slightly, and add vinegar. Freeze to a mush, add heavy
cream, beaten until stiff, pack in half-pound baking powder boxes, having mixture
overflow boxes, adjust covers, pack in salt and ice, and let stand one and one-half
hours. Remove from boxes, cut in slices crosswise, and serve on lettuce leaves.
Accompany with salad dressing.
ASPARAGUS SALAD
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
3 slices onion.
1 cup cold water.
3 cloves.
2 cups mild vinegar.
3 cups asparagus tips.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Add onion and cloves to vinegar, and
bring to boiling point. Strain and add soaked gelatine. When mixture begins to
stiffen, add asparagus tips, and turn into mold, first dipped in cold water. Chill
and remove to nests of crisp lettuce leaves.
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains cayenne.
2 tablespoonfuls cold water.
cup milk.
1 tablespoonful butter.
cup vinegar.
Yolks of two eggs.
3 tablespoonfuls sugar.
2 tablespoonfuls canned pineapple juice.
1 cup prepared fruit.
1 teaspoonful salt.
1 cup heavy cream.
teaspoonful paprika.
Lettuce.
well beaten, sugar, salt, paprika, and cayenne. Remove from fire and add grad-
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Melt butter, and add yolks of eggs,
ually milk, vinegar, and pineapple juice. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly
until mixture thickens, and add soaked gelatine. Remove from range, and beat
fruit, using Maraschino cherries, cut in small pieces and strained, orange pulp, canned
two minutes. Cool, stirring occasionally, and when beginning to set add prepared
sliced pineapple, cut in small pieces, and cream, beaten until stiff, being careful that
the fruit does not settle to the bottom. Pack in a wet brick mold, having mixture
overflow mold, adjust cover, and pack in finely crushed ice and rock salt, using two
parts ice to one part salt, and let stand two hours. Remove to bed of crisp lettuce
leaves, and cut in slices, crosswise, for serving. Accompany with mayonnaise dressing.
Frozen Fruit Salad
Knox
ASPIC JELLY
2 envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup Madeira wine.
2 tablespoonfuls each carrot, onion, and
1 quart brown stock.
celery, cut in small pieces.
1 cup cold water.
2 sprigs each parsley and thyme.
1 stalk savory.
3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
2 cloves. 1 bay leaf.
Whites of three eggs, slightly beaten.
Salt.
MA teaspoonful peppercorns.
Cayenne.
and wine in saucepan, bring to the boiling point, and let boil eight minutes; then
Put carrot, onion, celery, parsley, thyme, savory, cloves, bay leaf, peppercorns
strain. To brown stock add strained liquid, gelatine soaked in cold water five min-
utes, lemon juice, whites of eggs, slightly beaten, and salt and cayenne to taste.
Stir constantly until boiling point is reached, and let stand on back of range twenty
minutes; then strain and chill. One-quarter cup brandy may be added if desired.
CHICKEN ASPIC JELLY
Make same as Aspic Jelly, using chicken stock in place of brown stock.
ASPIC JELLY WITH BEEF EXTRACT
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
6 peppercorns.
31 cups cold water. 1 onion.
1 stalk celery.
1 ounce chopped lean raw ham.
1 sprig parsley.
1 teaspoonful beef extract or 2 bouillon
Bit of bay leaf.
cubes.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Soak gelatine in one-half cup cold water five minutes. Bring remaining in-
gredients, except beef extract and salt, to boiling point, and let simmer ten minutes;
then add salt, soaked gelatine and beef extract. Strain through a double thickness
of cheese cloth and chill.
MOCK ASPIC
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 quart cold water.
1 large bunch celery.
AP cup cold water.
4 slices carrot.
Salt.
2 slices onion.
Cayenne.
2 sprigs parsley.
Lemon juice.
1 sprig thyme.
Whites of two eggs.
1/2 teaspoonful celery seed.
Green coloring.
Wash and cut celery in small pieces. Put in saucepan with carrot, onion,
parsley, thyme, celery seed, and one quart cold water, bring to the boiling point,
and let simmer one and one-half hours. Strain and cool; there should be two cups
liquid. Add gelatine soaked in one-half cup cold water, and season to taste with
salt, cayenne and lemon juice; then add whites of eggs, slightly beaten, bring
slowly to the boiling point, color light green, and let stand on back of range to
clear, then strain and chill.
LOBSTER IN ASPIC
Remove meat from a two-pound boiled lobster, cut in pieces of uniform size,
and dress with olive oil, vinegar and cayenne. Mold in aspic jelly mixture, and chill.
Remove from mold to nest of crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with lobster shells and
large claws. Accompany with mayonnaise dressing. Sardines may also be molded
similarly in Aspic Jelly.
MINT JELLY FOR COLD LAMB
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 teaspoonful salt.
cup cold water.
Few grains paprika.
1 cup sugar.
1 cup finely chopped mint leaves.
1 cup vinegar.
Green coloring.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve in syrup made by boiling
sugar and vinegar five minutes. Add salt and paprika, color green and strain; then
add mint leaves. Let stand five minutes, strain into wet molds and chill.
ORANGE AND ENDIVE SALAD
Force Orange Jelly through a potato ricer. Arrange thin crosswise slices of
orange, from which seeds have been removed, on a bed of endive. Surround with
jelly, and pour French dressing over all.
Total
on
700
saw
Knox)
JELLIED CELERY
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
tablespoonful grated horseradish root.
1
cup cold water. 1/2 cups boiling water.
teaspoonful salt.
cup lemon juice.
Few grains pepper. Few grains cayenne.
cup sugar.
1 cup finely cut celery.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, and dissolve in boiling water; then
add lemon juice, sugar, grated horseradish root, salt, pepper and cayenne. Color
light green and strain. When mixture begins to thicken, add celery, turn into mold
first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove to small nests of lettuce leaves, and
serve with
French Russian Dresseng.-Mix one teaspoonful salt, one-third teaspoonful pep-
per, few grains cayenne, one-half cup olive oil, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one-
quarter cup tomato catsup, and two teaspoonfuls chives, cut in small pieces.
MUSHROOM BROTH
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 stalk celery.
1 cup cold water. 5 cups chicken stock.
1/2 teaspoonf ul salt.
1 cup mushrooms, broken in pieces.
Few grains pepper.
1 onion, thinly sliced.
3 cloves.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Place remaining ingredients in stew-
pan on range, bring to boiling point, and let boil ten minutes. Add soaked gelatine
and strain. Serve in bouillon cups, with a spoonful of whipped cream on each.
VEAL LOAF
1 envelope Knox Acidulated Gelatine.
2 cups chopped cold cooked veal, ham,
1 cup cold water.
beef or chicken.
2 cups stock, well seasoned.
cup canned pimentoes, cut in thin strips.
1 onion, peeled and sliced.
tablespoonful finely chopped parsley.
1 stalk celery.
Soak gelatine and one-half teaspoonful of the lemon flavoring found in the
Acidulated Package in cold water five minutes. Add onion and celery to stock,
bring to the boiling point, let boil three minutes, and pour over soaked gelatine.
When mixture begins to stiffen, add meat, pimentoes, and chopped parsley. Turn
into brick mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. Remove from mold, and cut
in slices for serving.
SWEETBREAD SALAD
tablespoonful Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1/2 tablespoonfuls vinegar.
cup sweetbread, cut in slices.
2 tablespoonfuls boiling water.
cup cucumber cubes.
Salt.
cup heavy cream.
Mix sweetbread and cucumber cubes and season with salt. Beat cream until
stiff and add gelatine which has been soaked in the vinegar and dissolved in the
boiling water. Set in pan of ice water, and as soon as mixture begins to thicken
add sweetbread and cucumber. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and
chill. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish top with a sprig of parsley.
MEAT OR FISH RELISH
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup vinegar.
cup cold water. 2/2 teaspoonful salt.
cup sugar.
teaspoonful celery seed.
1} cups finely shredded cabbage.
teaspoonful mustard seed.
cup thinly sliced onion.
Soak gelatine in cold water, and dissolve in hot vinegar; then add remaining
ingredients. Turn into individual molds, lined with canned pimentoes, and chill.
MACEDOINE SALAD
Make Tomato Jelly mixture. Wash, scrape and cut celery stalks in thin slices
crosswise; there should be one cup. Wipe, pare, peel and core two large apples, cut
in slices and in small pieces. Chop one cup walnut meats, mix celery, apple and nut
meats, and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Put one tablespoonful Tomato Jelly
mixture in each individual mold. Then add vegetable and nut mixture and cover
with Tomato Jelly mixture. Chill, turn from molds and garnish with watercress.
we
Knox
MARSHMALLOWS
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Few grains salt.
1 cups water.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
2 cups fine granulated sugar.
Soak gelatine in one-half the water five minutes. Put remaining water and
sugar in saucepan, bring to the boiling point and let boil until syrup will spin a thread
when dropped from tip of spoon. Add soaked gelatine and let stand until partially
cooled; then add salt and flavoring. Beat until mixture becomes white and thick.
Pour into granite pans, thickly dusted with powdered sugar, having mixture
one inch in depth. Let stand in a cool place until thoroughly chilled. Turn on a
board, cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar. This recipe makes about one
hundred marshmallows. Nuts, chocolate, fruit juices in place of part of the water,
or candied fruits chopped may be added-or the plain ones rolled in grated cocoa-
nut before being sugared. Dates stuffed with this confection are delicious.
FIG BARS
2 envelopes Knox Gelatine.
1/2 cup chopped blanched almonds.
2 cups cold water.
1 orange.
2 cups sugar.
1 lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of the lemon
1/2 pound figs.
flavoring found in Acidulated pack-
3 tablespoonfuls sherry wine.
age dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls cold
1/4 cup chopped walnut meats.
water.
Soak gelatine in one cup of the cold water ten minutes. Force figs through a
food chopper, add juice of lemon, juice of orange and grated rind of orange, bring to
the boiling point and let simmer ten minutes. Put sugar and remaining water in
saucepan and when sugar is dissolved add soaked gelatine. Bring to the boiling
point and let boil ten minutes; then add fig mixture and boil ten minutes, stirring
constantly. Remove from range, add nut meats and sherry wine. Pour into shallow
pan, first dipped in cold water, and let stand over night. Cut in pieces two and one-
half inches by one-half inch. Roll in powdered sugar.
GINGER CRYSTALS
1 envelope Knox Gelatine.
1 cup boiling vater.
1 cup cold water.
1/2 cupcrystallized ginger, cut in small pieces.
2 cups granulated sugar.
1 tablespoonfu lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and boiling water in sauce-
pan, place on range, and when sugar is dissolved add soaked gelatine. Bring to
boiling point and let boil fifteen minutes. Remove from range and add lemon juice
or one-half teaspoonful lemon flavoring found in the Acidulated package, dissolvedin
one tablespoonful cold water and crystallized ginger. Turn into pan dipped in cold
water, having mixture three-fourths inch in depth. Let stand over night, cut in ob-
long shapes, roll in fine granulated sugar and let stand to crystallize.
COCOANUT FUDGE
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
2 cups sugar. 1 cup milk.
3 tablespoonfuls cold water.
1/2 tablespoonful butter.
1 cup shredded cocoanut.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put sugar and milk in saucepan, bring
to boiling point and let boil until when tried in cold water a soft ball may be formed.
Remove from range, add soaked gelatine, butter and vanilla. Beat until creamy,
add cocoanut and turn into a buttered pan.
CHOCOLATE FUDGE
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup chopped nut meats, preferably
13 cups milk.
English walnuts or pecans.
11 squares unsweetened chocolate.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
21 cups sugar.
Soak gelatine in two-thirds cup cold milk ten minutes. Bring sugar and re-
maining milk to boiling point, add melted chocolate and soaked gelatine, and let
boil fifteen minutes. Remove from range, stir until it thickens, add nut meats
and vanilla. Turn into pan, first dipped in cold water, let stand until cool, cut in
squares and roll in powdered sugar.
26
Knox
PEANUT DAINTIES
1 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup boiling water.
cup cold water.
2 cups chopped roasted peanuts.
2 cups light brown sugar.
1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and boiling water in sauce-
pan, and when sugar is dissolved add gelatine, bring to the boiling point and let boil
fifteen minutes. Remove from range and add one cup peanuts and one tablespoonful
lemon juice, or one-half teaspoonful of the lemon flavoring found in the Acidulated
package, soaked in one tablespoonful cold water. Turn into pan, first dipped in cold
water, having mixture three-fourths inch in depth. Let stand over night, cut in
squares and roll in ground peanuts.
MINT PASTE
1} envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Green coloring.
2 cups sugar.
4 tablespoonfuls crême de menthe.
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.
Few grains salt.
Soak gelatine in two-thirds cup cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and two-
thirds cup water in saucepan, bring to the boiling point, add soaked gelatine and let
boil twenty minutes. Remove from fire, add remaining ingredients and color
green. Turn into a pan (first rinsed in cold water) to one inch in thickness. When
set, remove to board, cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar.
CHRISTMAS CANDY SUPREME
1/2 envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
cup Sultana raisins.
2 squares chocolate.
cup candied cherries.
3 cups sugar.
cup chopped English walnut meats.
1 cup sour cream.
teaspoonful cinnamon.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls cold water ten minutes. Melt chocolate in
saucepan placed in larger saucepan containing boiling water. Add sugar and sour
cream alternately, while stirring Constantly. Bring to the boiling point and let boil
until mixture will form a soft b. when tried in cold water. Remove from fire, add
gelatine, and when it has dissolved add cinnamon, raisins, cherries, cut in small
pieces, and nut meats. Beat until creamy and turn into buttered tins, having
mixture about inches deep. Cool, remove from pan and cut in slices for serving
The mixture may be put in individual tins, and when unmolding insert in top of each
a sprig of holly. Omit fruit in this recipe and you have Somerville Fudge.
COFFEE CHOCOLATE FUDGE
envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
1 cup strong boiled coffee.
2 squares chocolate.
2 tablespoonf uls butter.
2 cups white sugar.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 cup brown sugar.
1 teaspoonful vinegar.
teaspoonful salt.
Soak gelatine in two tablespoonfuls cold water ten minutes. Melt chocolate in
saucepan placed in larger saucepan containing boiling water. Add sugar and coffee
alternately while stirring constantly. Place saucepan containing mixture in direct
contact with stove, bring to the boiling point, add butter and let boil until mixture
will form a soft ball when tried in cold water. Add gelatine and beat until creamy.
Add vanilla and vinegar and turn into a slightly buttered pan. Cool and cut in squares.
TURKISH DELIGHT
1} envelopes Knox Sparkling Gelatine.
Juice of one orange.
t cup cold water.
Juice of one lemon.
2 cups granulated sugar.
1 tablespoonfu rum.
1/2 cup boiling water.
Red coloring.
Grated rind of one orange.
cup chopped nut meats.
Soak gelatine in cold water ten minutes. Put sugar and boiling water in sauce-
pan, bring to the boiling point, add soaked gelatine and let boil twenty minutes.
Add flavorings and coloring, strain, add nut meats and turn into a bread pan (first
dipped in cold water) to one inch in depth. Let stand until firm, remove to board.
cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar. Therum and nut meats may be omitted.
The Delta's Best Cook Book
TEA LEMONADE
1 1/2 cups boiling water
3 tsp. tea
3/4 cup lemon juice
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups dry ginger ale
Ice
Pour boiling water over tea. Let stand 5 minutes. Strain
and cool. Add lemon juice and sugar, stir until sugar is dissolved,
Add ginger ale and ice as desired.
PUNCH
2 46 oz. cans orange juice
1 46 oz. can grape juice
1 cup lemon juice
2 No. 2 cans pineapple juice
1 cup cherries
1 pint strong tea
Mix and pour into punch bowl over ice.
Mrs. A. E. Lancaster
EGG NOG
6 heaping tablespoons sugar
6 egg yolks
Cream together and let stand 1 hour. or so.
Pour 1/2 cup
whiskey over yolks while stirring. Add 1 pint whipped cream to this
mixture. Fold in six stiffly beaten egg whites to which has been
added 2 tablespoons of sugar. When served sprinkle top with nut
meg. Serve with cake.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
EGG-NOG
1 quart Eggnog or Vanilla ice cream
1 pint whipped cream
1/2 pint whiskey
Nut meg
Put ice cream in large bowl, stir in whiskey; fold in whipped
cream, sprinkle with nut neg. Serve at once.
Church Stallings
Page 2
The Delta's Best Cook Book
PLANTERS PUNCH (One Serving)
Juice of 1/2 Lemon
2 pineapple sticks
1 teaspoon sugar
2 cherries
1 jigger rum
Shovel ice to fill glass
Sprig of mint
LEMON GINGER PUNCH
1 quart lemon ice
3/4 quart white wine
2 quarts ginger ale
Mix ginger ale and wine, add lemon ice. When nearly melted serve.
HOT BUTTERED RUM
1 cube sugar
1 to 2 tablespoons rum
1 pat butter 1/2 oz.
Pinch of cloves and allspice
Place sugar in tall glass. Dissolve in a little hot water. Add
spices and rum, fill glasses with hot water and float butter on top..
CLOVER LEAF COCKTAIL
Use large bar glass
1 part gin
1/2 part grenadine or 2 strawberries (sweeten and crush)
Juice of 1/2 lime
White of one egg
Shake and strain into cocktail glasses.
WHISKEY SOUR
Use large bar glasses
1 1/2 tablesnoons sugar (dissolve in a little charged water)
Juice of 1/2 lemon and 1/2 orange
1 wine glass whiskey
Fill glass full of shovel ice. Shake well and strain into glass.
Serve dressed with berries in season.
Mr. Charles Ariff
Page 3
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Salada
SALAD DRESSING (From Mexico)
1 1/2 Cups Wesson or Olive Oil
1/2 Cup Sugar
2 Cans Tomatoe Soup
1 Tablespoon salt
1 1/2 Cups Cider Vinegar
2 Tablespoons Paprika
3 Tablespoons Horseradish Mustard
1 Grated Onion (medium size)
2 Tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce
1 Clove Garlic
Juice of one lemon
Mix dry ingredients and add to liquids, which have been
previously mixed. Whip with rotary egg beater. Keep closed tightly
in fruit jar in refrigerator. Will keep indefinitely. Specially nice
for Avacado salad.
Mrs. Jessie Lawson
APPLE SALAD
3 large carrots (grated)
1 apple chopped fine
2 pieces celery
1/2 Cup raisins
Mix with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce.
Mrs. Orville Cadenhead
CELERY SEED DRESSING
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 teaspoons mustard
2 teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon onion juice
2/3 cup vinegar
2 cups salad oil
Combine sugar, mustard, salt, onion juice and 1/2 of the vine-
gar.
Beat well. Then gradually add the oil alternately with the
remaining vinegar, beat until a stable emulsion has been formed. Add
the celery seed. Especially nice over grapefruit or Avacado Salad.
Carmen Pearson
Page 5
The Delta's Best Cook Book
POTATO SALAD
2 lbs. potatoes
Juice of two lemons
1 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon red pepper
2 teaspoons salt
1/4 cup of wesson oil
Boil potatoes until tender. Peel and cube potatoes. Then
make dressing with rest of ingredients, mashing garlic with salt and
pepper until real fine, add lemon juice and oil slowly. Pour over
potatoes. Something different.
C. W. Haik
PARTY SALAD
1 pound marshmallows
1 cup nuts
8 slices pineapple or 2 cups crushed (drained)
1/2 pint cream
1 small bottle maraschino cherries, cut in halves.
Cut marshmallows in quarters, mix with diced pineapple,
cherries, well-whipped cream, and last, chopped pecans. Mix and
store in covered bowl in refrigerator. Will keep three days. This
can be used as a desert with Angel cake.
Mrs. W. H. Bell
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
1 can fruit cocktail
6 to 10 marshmallows (chopped)
3 to 4 tablespoons mayonnaise
1/2 cup cream (whipped)
Mix all ingredients well and freeze. Serves 8.
Mrs. Orville Cadenhead
WELLS FUNERAL HOME
AMBULANCE SERVICE
PICTURE FRAMING
326 MAIN
PHONE 4
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
MT
107
107
107
Page 6
The Delta's Best Cook Book
HOT POTATO SALAD
Cook 6 medium sized potatoes in the jackets, peel while hot,
slice into warm serving dish with alternate layers of spring onions, or
spanish onions which have been sliced and soaked in cold water.
Sprinkle each layer with salt, celery seed and pepper to taste. Pour
over this the following dressing:
Fry 4 strips bacon, or use 4 tablespoons drippings. As the
bacon is done remove from fat, crumble over potatoe mixture, and
to the remaining fat in the pan add-
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon prepared mustard
1/4 cup sugar, brown preferred
3/4 cup vinegar, let all boil up stirring constantly, pour over salad and
serve at once. With stuffed eggs, sandwiches and coffee a hearty
meal. Nice for emergency company.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
CRANBERRY MOLD
1 pkg. lemon gelatin or jello
1/2 cup crushed pineapple
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1 1/2 cups boiling water
1/2 cup finely cut celery
1 cup thick cranberry sauce (sweetened)
Dissolve the gelatin in the boiling water. Cool. When slight-
ly thickened add lemon juice, celery, pineapple and cranberry sauce.
Turn in molds and chill. Serve on lettuce. Garnish with mayon-
naise mixed with a little minced green pepper.
Mrs. Vernon Hammond, Jr.
TOMATO ASPIC
To one can Campbell's tomato soup add equal amount of
water, heat to nearly boiling point. Have ready one envelope Knox
gelatin, dissolve in small amount of cold water. Add this to soup
mixture and let cool, then add 1/2 cup celery, chopped fine, 1/4 cup of
sliced stuffed olives, a bit of scraped onion, and salt and cayenne pep-
per
to
taste.
Pour in molds to chill. Serve on lettuce with mayon-
naise.
Mrs. S. F. Witherspoon
Page 7
The Dolta's Best Cook Book
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
2 pkgs. Philadelphia cream cheese
1 can fruit cocktail
1 cup white raisins
1 tablespoon sugar
pinch of salt
Drain fruit cocktail.
Mash cheese and whip with juice from
cocktail; add sugar, salt. When thoroughly mixed add fruit and put
in tray to freeze. Serves 5.
Katherine Reilly
PINEAPPLE CHEESE FROZEN SALAD
1/2 pound American cheese
1 can No. 2 crushed pineapple
1 small bottle red cherries
1/2 cup mayonnaise
Mix grated cheese, pineapple, mayonnaise and cut cherries;
put in molds and freeze for 24 hours; serve on lettuce leaf with may-
onnaise or top with whipped cream and cherries.
Caroline Worthington
MOLDED CHEESE SALAD
1 cup grated yellow cheese
1/2 cup cream, whipped
1/4 cup chopped pimento
1/2 cup vinegar
Salt, cayenne, to taste
Few drops tobasco
2 level tablespoons knox gelatine
1/2 cup warm water
Mix cream, cheese, gelatine dissolved in water, etc. Mix .
quickly, pack in freezing tray. Slice, serve on lettuce with mayonnaise.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
FROZEN FRUIT SALAD
4 egg yolks
1 can diced pineapple
4 tbsp. sugar
1 pt. whipped cream
4 tbsp. Tarragon Vinegar
1 box marshmallows (quartered).
Beat egg yolks until light, add sugar and vinegar and cook
in
double boiler until thick. When cold add cream, mix with other
ingredients. Pour into mold. When frozen, serve on lettuce leaf with
mayonnaise.
Page 8
The Delta's Best Cook Book
FRUIT SALAD DRESSING
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons butter
Blend flour with enough cold milk, to make a smooth paste,
add rest of the ingredients, stir constantly over fire until it boils and
thickens. Add juice of two lemons. When cold fold in 1/2 pint whip-
ped cream. Good on any fruit salad.
PINEAPPLE SALAD
1 can sliced pineapple (drained)
Juice of 1 lemon
1/2 can condensed milk
Grated cheese
Squeeze juice from lemon and alternate with milk. Whipping
until thick. Pour over pineapple slice and fill center with grated
cheese.
Mrs. Wm. Taggart
Sam Stein
- Department Store -
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
Page 9
The Delta's Best Cook Book
30
A
EGG PLANT (Baked)
2 cups cooked, peeled and mashed egg plant
Salt to taste
2 tablespoons butter or oleo
Dash of pepper
3/4 cup bread crumb
1 beaten egg
1 tablespoon minced onion
2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
Mix ingredients together and place in greased casserole. Place
casserole in shallow pan of water and bake slowly until fairly firm.
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over the top if desired. (This same
recipe can be used for squash).
SPINACH RING, FROMAGE
3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons flour
1 cup milk
1/2 pound cheese, grated
1 1/2 cups chopped, cooked spinach 1 1/2 cups bread crumbs
3 eggs
1 teaspoon salt, pepper to taste
Melt butter, stir in flour, add milk, stirring until it thickens.
Add cheese, remove from heat and stir until cheese is melted. Add
well-drained spinach, bread crumbs, eggs and seasonings. Pack into
a well-oiled mold and bake in slow oven until firm. Cheese may
be left out and small onion chopped and added.
(Squash, broccoli or asparagus may be used in the place of spinach.)
Page 10
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CABBAGE ROLLS
1 1/2cups rice (uncooked)
1/2 teaspoon pepper
Small can tomato paste (or canned tomatoes)
1 teaspoon salt
1 large cabbage (separate leaves, remove hard center stem and boil
leaves 10 minutes)
2 1/2 cups lamb or pork
Combine ingredients except cabbage and place a little on each
leaf. Roll and arrange in deep pot. Add enough water to barely
cover the cabbage rolls. Season with 1 teaspoon salt. one clove of
garlic, 1 teaspoon dried mint leaves, juice of two lemons. Add this
during the last fifteen minutes of cooking period. Cooking time about
one hour or until rice is done.
Mrs. Dorothy Ariff
STUFFED SQUASH
Select small tender squash
2 cups veal or lamb
Salt and pepper
1/2 can of No. 2 tomatoes
1 cup rice (uncooked)
Dash of allspice and cinnamon
Cut top of squash. Scoop out as much of the pulp as possible.
Fill with stuffing and arrange in a pot. Add two tablespoons of
tomato paste, teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper and water to
cover. Cook until done (about one hour.)
Mrs. N. E. Ariff
SMOTHERED SNAPBEANS
3 lbs. snap beans
1 onion
1 lb. lamb
2 cups canned tomatoes
Cook meat until almost brown add onions and snap beans.
Cover and smother until snap beans are tender, add tomatoes, salt
and pepper to taste and water to cover. Cook until meat is tender.
Serve with steam rice.
Mrs. N. E. Ariff
ACORN SQUASH
Select small size acorn squash (allowing 1/2 per person). Cut
in half and remove seed, place in shallow baking pan and keep 1 inch
water around squash at all times while baking. In each half, place
1 patty of butter and 1 tablespoons of water. When done add 1 tea-
spoon of sugar, 2 teaspoons of syrup and sprinkle with cinnamon.
Baste with liquid that forms in center of squash. Baking time 1 hour.
Frances Phillips
Page 11
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ACORN SQUASH WITH PINEAPPLE
Use baked acorn squash and scoop out the pulp. To a cup of
pulp add 1/2 cup of drained crushed pineapple and 6 chopped marsh-
mallows, place in hot oven until marshmallows melt and then sprinkle
with sugar. Baking time: 15 minutes.
Mrs. A. E. Lancaster
STUFFED BELL PEPPER
1 cup cooked rice
1 can Italian gravy
1/2 cup grated cheese
1 cup potted meat
6 bell peppers (scalded to remove skin)
Mix rice, Italian gravy and potted meat-Stuff peppers-Top
with cheese. Cook 15 or 20 minutes or until brown on top.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
SCALLOPED CORN
3 cups fresh or canned corn
3 eggs beaten
1 cup milk
1/8 teaspoon pepper
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons butter
Buttered bread crumbs
Combine ingredients. Pour into buttered casserole. Lay
strips of pimento or green pepper across top. Sprinkle with buttered
bread crumbs. Bake uncovered in a slow oven.
POTATOES AU GRATIN
8 medium sized potatoes
2 cups medium white sauce
1/3 cup grated cheese
1/4 eup bread cubes
Pare potatoes; cook in 1/2 cup water until tender. Cut in
cubes. Place layer of potatoes in buttered baking dish; cover with
cheese and white sauce. Place the second layer of potatoes; cheese
and white sauce, with buttered bread crumbs on top. Bake one hour
at 350 degrees.
Page 12
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BAKED ASPARAGUS
1 can green asparagus
Grated cheese
3 hard boiled eggs
Large lump butter
1 tablespoonful flour
1 cup milk
Salt, pepper and paprika to taste
Melt butter, stir in flour, salt, pepper and paprika and add
milk gradually until you have cream sauce of right consistency. Place
part of the asparagus in baking dish, then layer of eggs, then cheese.
Repeat until all ingredients are used. Pour over cream sauce, and
bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
CORN PUDDING
2 cups stewed corn
2 cups milk
3 eggs
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon minced onion
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup minced green pepper
1 minced pimento
1 teaspoon salt
Beat eggs slightly. Add milk, sugar and salt. Combine corn
with other ingredients and add to milk mixture. Mix
well.
Turn
into greased casserole and bake in moderate oven (325 degrees) one
hour.
Mrs. Wiley Mock
PIGCLY
The Delta's Best Cooks
TO
Depend on
Piggly Wiggly Stores
For all their Baking needs
WICGLY
Every-Day Low Prices
Complete Assortments
Courteous Service
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 13
The Delta's Best Cook Book
company
GYPSY CASSEROLE
1 1/2 inch slice ham
4 potatoes
6 carrots
4 small onions
4 turnips
1/2 cup light molasses
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon paprika
Place ham in bottom of large greased casserole dish. Pare
and cut vegetables in half; arrange over ham. Combine molasses,
milk and paprika; pour over vegetables, cover and bake in moderate
oven (350) for 2 hours. Uncover last half hour.
TUNA FISH CASSEROLE WITH PRETZELS
1 can condensed mushroom soup
1/2 cup milk
1 1/4 cups flaked tuna fish
1 tablespoon diced green pepper
2 tablespoons diced onion
1/2 cup diced celery
1/4 teaspoon salt
dash of pepper
1 cup crushed pretzels
Whole pretzels
Mix together all ingredients except the pretzels. Place a
layer of the fish mixture in the bottom of the greased casserole dish.
Sprinkle a layer of pretzels on top. Alternate layers until casserole
is filled, ending with fish mixture. Top with whole pretzels. Bake
in a 350 degree oven for 35 or 40 minutes.
FOR A TABLE SETTING THAT WILL BRING
EVERY HOSTESS THRILLING PRAISE
Wallace Arnold
REGISTERED JEWELER - A.G.S.
Greenville, Mississippi
SDIAMONDS-WATCHES-SILVER-CHINA-CRYSTAL-PICTURES-GIFTS
Page 14
The Delta's Best Cook Book
TUNA FISH CASSEROLE
1 can tuna fish
1 can condensed mushroom soup
2 cups crushed potato chips
Put tuna fish, mushroom soup and crushed potato chips in a
buttered baking dish in alternate layers in order named, ending with
crushed chips. Bake in a moderate oven about 25 minutes.
Mrs. Wiley Mock
SPAGHETTI, CHEESE AND EGG CASSEROLE
1
1 box spaghetti
1/2 lb. yellow cheese
6 hard boiled eggs
1 cup white sauce
Cook spaghetti in salted water until tender. Place a layer of
spaghetti in casserole, then a layer of sliced and seasoned eggs, then a
layer of thinly sliced cheese. Repeat until all ingredients have been
used, having cheese as the last layer. Pour the white sauce over this
place in oven and bake until cheese is melted thoroughly and it is
slightly brown on top. Serve hot.
Carmen Pearson.
EGGPLANT IN CASSEROLE
1 medium eggplant
2 eggs
1 cup cracker crumbs or 1 1/2 slices of white bread
Salt to taste
1 small onion, chopped fine
3/4 cup milk
Peel and slice eggplant, place in salt water (not to strong) for
at least 30 minutes (longer if time allows). Place saucer on top of
eggplant so it will be under water. After soaking drain, add fresh
water, boil until tender, drain well and mash or cut into smali pieces.
Beat eggs and add to eggplant, then add cracker crumbs. Thin mix-
ture with milk, be sure it is not too thick before baking. Salt to taste
and add the onion if desired, but not necessary. Butter a deep baking
dish, dot with butter, or a tablespoonful of butter can be melted and
stirred in before baking. Bake in not too hot oven 15 or 20 minutes,
or until brown and firm.
Mary L. Cook
Page 15
The Delta's Best Cook Book
DINNER EN CASSEROLE
2/3 cup English peas
2 medium white potatoes, sliced
2 white onions, sliced
3 pre-cooked carrots or parsnips, sliced
1 cup coarsly chopped meat, 1 cup broth or gravy (steak)
Place in buttered casserole, cover with stock or water, sprinkle
with salt and pepper, and over all, place a thin pastry crust, prick
with fork and brush with melted butter. Bake in medium oven (350
degrees fahrenheit for 45 minutes or until potatoes are done.
ASPARAGUS CASSEROLE
In greased casserole place one layer each of the following:
Asparagus tips
Sliced hard-boiled eggs
Grated American cheese
Cracker crumbs
Moisten with milk, season with salt, pepper and butter.
Sprinkle grated cheese over top. Bake in moderate oven until cheese
is melted and golden brown.
Mrs. Frank Baldwin
WALCOTT & STEELE
23M
ADAPTED SEED
Phone 1625
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
Page 16
The Delta's Best Cook Book
HUSH PUPPIES (To be served with fried fish)
2 cups meal
1/4 cup crisco
1 teaspoon salt, hot water to make a firm mixture
Make in small pones, roll in meal and fry in deep fat, where
you have finished frying fish.
Minced or chopped onion may be added to the above mixture
if desired, before cooking.
SPOON CORN BREAD
1 cup boiling water
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 tablespoon butter
1 cup milk
2 eggs
Slowly add the cornmeal to the boiling water, stirring con-
stantly. Cook until thick. Remove from the fire and add the salt and
butter. Then add the milk and beaten egg yolks. Then fold in the
beaten egg whites and place in a greased shallow baking dish.
Bake at 375 degrees for 50 minutes.
Mrs. Rife Chaney, Jr.
NEVER FAIL-Ice Box Rolls
1 quart sweet milk
1/2 cup sugar
3/4 cup shortening
1 yeast cake
Place together in good size boiler, sweet milk, sugar and
shortening, bring to scalding point. Cool this mixture and add one
fleishmans yeast cake which has been previously dissolved in 3/4 cup
luke warm water. Mix enough sifted flour to make a stiff batter and
let rise, when batter has thoroughly risen add more flour in which has
been sifted 1/2 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon
baking powder. Use enough flour to make a soft dough. Make out
rolls and let rise to bake. This will keep in refrigerator a week or
longer.
Mrs. Dudley Clower
Page 20
The Delta's Best Cook Book
PARKER HOUSE ROLLS
2 cups milk
1 cup water (lukewarm)
2 eggs
3 teaspoons salt
1 yeast cake
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup shortening
10 to 12 cups flour
1 tablespoon sugar
Scald milk, add water. When cooled to lukewarm, add yeast
and 1 tablespoon sugar, which has been dissolved in 1/4 cup water, add
this to cooled milk and water, then add butter and sugar which has
been creamed, slightly beaten eggs, salt and enough flour to make a
thin batter. Let rise in warm place in a covered bowl about 2 hours.
Then add balance of flour and salt. Knead into a smooth dough, let
rise until doubled in bulk, then make into rolls and let rise for 1 hour.
Bake at 400 degrees F. This will keep in ice box for a day or two.
ROSELLA'S
HOME APPLIANCES
PHONE 1488
708 WASHINGTON
Frigidaire
Sales and Service
Page 21
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ICE BOX ROLLS
1 yeast cake
6 tablespoons sugar
2 cups lukewarm water
3 tablespoons shortening (melted)
1 egg (beaten)
6 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons salt
Soften yeast cake in water. Let stand 5 minutes. Add salt,
egg, sugar and shortening. Add flour little at a time, beating well
each time. Knead dough until smooth. Cover with warm damp cloth
and let stand 2 hours. Knead down or make into rolls and put into ice
box. Let rise 2 hours before baking. Bake in hot oven 10 minutes.
Mrs. Ben Rogers
WAFFLES (From a friend in Sweden)
3/4 cup flour, sifted with 1/4 teaspoon salt.
5 eggs, adding one egg at the time to the flour until a smooth batter
is achieved. Beat well, then add one cup of heavy cream and one
half cup full of light cream, beat all very thoroughiy with a rotary egg
beater. Bake in a hot waffle iron until golden brown. Waffles should
not be hard when done.
Mrs. Jessie Lawson
BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLECAKES
1 cup stale bread crumbs
1/2 cup water
3/4 cup milk
1 cup flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
4 tabiespoons shortening (melted)
1 teaspoon sugar
Soak breadcrumbs in water 10 minutes, add milk. Sift to-
gether flour, baking powder and salt; add to bread mixture; add beat-
en eggs and shortening; mix well. Bake on slightly greased hot
griddle.
SWEET POTATO BISCUITS
1 cup mashed sweet potatoe
2/3 cup milk
4 tablespoons melted butter
1 1/4 cups flour
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Mix and sift dry ingredients, and cut in fat, add milk then add
potatoes. Smooth into dough. Roll, cut into small biscuits. Bake
in hot oven 10 to 15 minutes.
Mrs. Church Stallings
Page 22
The Delta's Best Cook Book
WAFFLES
1 large heaping kitchen spoon of lard
1 large heaping kitchen spoon of sugar
1 whole egg
2 rounding teaspoons baking powder
Salt to taste
2 level cups of sifted flour (not packed in cup but put in lightly)
Cream lard and sugar well, then break the whole egg into the
creamed lard and continue to cream. Add the flour and milk by
degrees. Using enough milk to make a thin batter. The last thing
fold in the baking powder. This recipe may be used for muffins but
don't make the batter as thin as for waffles.
Bettie Archer
CHOCOLATE WAFFLES
1/2 cup butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 eggs
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 oz. chocolate (melted)
1 1/4 cups milk
1 1/2 cup flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon vanila
Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs to melted choco-
late. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately with milk. Bake on
hot waffle iron.
FLUFFY WAFFLES
2 well beaten egg yolks
2 stiffly beaten egg whites
1 1/2 cups milk (sweet)
1/4 teaspoons salt
2 cups flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
6 tablespoons melted shortening
Mix egg yolks and milk; add flour, sifted with salt and baking
powder, then slightly cooled shortening. Beat smooth, fold in egg
whites. Bake on ungreased waffle iron.
Makes from 4 to 6 waffles.
Mrs. Paul Bauer
Page 23
The Delta's Best Cook Book
"CRACKLING BREAD"
1 cup cracklings diced or ground
1 1/2 cups cornmeal
3/4 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon soda
salt to taste
1 cup sour milk
Cracklings are pieces of meat remaining after the lard has
been rendered from the pork.
Mix and sift together the dry ingredients; add the milk and
stir in the cracklings. Form into cakes and place in greased baking
pan. Bake in hot oven for 30 minutes.
Mrs. Church Stallings
BANANA BREAD
1/2 cup shortening
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
3 bananas
1 cup nuts
1 teaspoon soda
2 cups sifted flour
Mix like cake and add mashed bananas last. Cook in loaf
pan in a slow oven about 1 hour.
DM
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
SOUR MILK CORN MEAL WAFFLES
2 cups corn
meal
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
About 1 1/2 cups buttermilk
2 eggs
4 tablespoons melted butter
Quality of meal will determine the amount of milk. Sift dry
ingredients together. Add milk and melted fat. Beat until light and
add to meal mixture. Bake in waffle iron, preheated to same temper-
ature as for plain waffles.
Page 24
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Meats
STUFFED PORK CHOPS
4 Lean Pork Chops
Salt and pepper
1 green pepper, cut in rings
1 large onion, sliced
2 cups tomato juice
8 tabiespoons boiled rice
1 tablespoon flour
Brown chops in hot fat; Season; place in baking pan, top each
chop with a green pepper ring, a slice of onion, and 2 tablespoons rice.
Brown flour in fat used for chops and add tomato juice. If too thick
add a little water. Pour over chops and bake slowly about 1 hour.
Serves 4. If desired, Mushroom soup may be used in place of tomato
juice.
Mrs. Fred Krutz
TAMALE PIE
1 lb. Ground Meat
1 can Tomatoes
1 can Tamales
3 large Onions
4 parts Garlic
1 tablespoon Butter
Salt, Pepper and Chili Powder to taste.
Take two skillets; in one put meat, and cook until it crumbles.
In other, put Butter and chopped Onions, and fry until onions are
brown. Take tomatoes and mash them. Mix all ingredients to-
gether and let simmer 2 hours.
TAMALE PIE CRUST
Mix 2 cups meal and 2 teaspoons salt with 6 cups boiling
water, and cook over low heat about 15 minutes, stirring frequently.
Line sides and bottom of greased baking dish with 1 inch layer of
mush. Pour in meat filling. Add another layer of mush, and then
another of meat and cover all with mush. Bake in moderate slow
oven 1 1/2 hours. Serves 6 to
8.
Mrs. Innocent Loyacano.
Page 28
The Delta's Best Cook Book
MEAT LOAF
1 lb. ground round steak
3 eggs
1/4 lb. salt pork ground with steak
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup hot sweet milk
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 cup cracker crumbs
1/4 teaspoon paprika
1 small onion
Mix well, adding beaten egg whites last. Put a row of stuffed
olives through the center and a strip of bacon on the top of the loaf.
Bake about 1 hour and 15 minutes in a loaf pan.
Miss Carmen Pearson
HAM LOAF
1 1/2 lbs. raw smoked ham
1 1/2 lbs. raw fresh ham, grind both together, add:-
12 crackers crumbled fine
2 whole eggs beaten
1 cup bread crumbs
pepper to taste, no salt
Form into loaf mixing with 1 can campbell's tomato soup,
reserving half of soup to pour over top. Bake in a very slow oven
2
hours. Serve hot or cold. Good with baked beans, slaw and
brown bread.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
HAM BALLS
3/4 1b. ground ham shank
1/4 lb. ground lean pork
2/3 cup crushed cornflakes
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1/3 cup milk
1 egg
Grind meat, mix with cereal, sugar, cloves, milk and egg.
Shape into balls. Place in flat open pan. Bake in 350 F. oven 20
minutes. Serve with broiled peach halves.
Monis Lancaster
A. E. Lancaster
Phone 1617-J
Phone 1326-J
LANCASTER BROTHERS
General Contractors
Estimates Furnished
MT
MY
MIT
MIT
MT
MT
MIT
YY
Page 29
The Delta's Best Cook Book
STUFFED SPARERIBS
1 1/2 lbs. spareribs
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup chopped onion
1/2 cup chopped celery
2 cups soft bread crumbs
1/8 teaspoon pepper
Brown onions in fat. Add celery, bread crumbs, salt, pepper
and 1/2 cup water. Place dressing in baking pan and cover with
seasoned spareribs. Bake uncovered in 350° F. oven for 1 1/2 hours.
Serve with broiled tomatoes.
Mrs. Church Stallings
TO CORN BEEF
5 lb. solid piece lean beef
Rub in 1 tablespoon salt peter (purchase at drug store)
1/2 cup salt
2 tablespoons garlic
2 cloves garlic
2 tablespoons vinegar
1 tablespoon black pepper
Put in crock and weight down cover. Set in refrigerator 5
days, turning it over every day. Then cover with water and boil
slowly until tender. Serve hot with boiled potatoes, creamed cab-
bage, and horseradish sauce.
Horseradish Sauce
To one cup good cream sauce add 1 tablespoon worcester-
shire, 1 teaspoon prepared mustard, 1 tablespoon prepared horseradish,
black pepper to taste. If you have a pepper grinder and can grind
whole pepper so much the better. Freshly ground horseradish is
best too if you can get it in the market.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
CRANBERRY HAM SLICE
3 cups raw cranberries
2 slices ham (3/4 to 1 inch thick)
1 1/2 cups strained honey
2 tablespoons whole cloves
Mix cranberries and honey, gash edges of fat on ham. Place
one slice ham on baking dish. Spread the center with a mixture of
cranberries and honey. Top with second slice. Cover with remain-
ing cranberries and honey mixture. Garnish with whole cloves.
Bake until done in a moderate oven-basting often with liquid in dish.
Page 30
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BRUNSWICK STEW (Serves 15 generously)
2 hens
8 large potatoes
1 1/2 lbs. beef and pork
1 can corn
3 cans tomatoes
1 stalk celery
1 lb. onions
Pinch of chili powder
salt, pepper, worcestershire to taste
Cook hen and meat together until tender and shred-Put back
in broth-Add onions, celery, tomatoes and seasonings-Cook until
it is thick-Add potatoes and when they are almost done, add the corn.
Be sure and stir to prevent scorching. Serve with dill pickle, hot
buttered rolls, coffee and apple pie.
Mr. D. D. Gorton (Travelers Club)
CORNED BEEF (Wonderful)
8 lbs. Brisket (boned)
1 gal water
8 oz. salt
8 oz. sugar
1 tablespoon pickling spice
1 clove garlic (chopped)
1 tablespoon salt peter or freezum pickle
Mix all ingredients together-Add meat to this mixture and
let set in refrigerator for 15 days-Then take out and boil till tender.
Sprinkle with paprika and brown sugar.
Mr. D. D. Gorton
CHILI MAC
1 can tomatoes
1 medium onion
1 can chili with beans
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 lb. hamburger meat
salt and pepper to taste
1 package vermicelli
Cook onions in a couple tablespoons drippings or shortening,
add meat which has been seasoned with 1 teaspoon salt and pepper to
taste. Stir until meat is thoroughly browned, add rest of ingredients,
simmer slowly one hour. Serve over vermicelli which has been
cooked and well drained.
Hot buttered french bread, a green salad,
and you have a good meal.
Mrs. N. L. Mayhall
Page 31
The Delta's Best Cook Book
EMERGENCY STEAK
1 lb. ground beef
1/2 cup milk
1 cup cereal flakes
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1 onion (finely chopped)
Mix all ingredients together. Shape like a T-Bone steak,
One inch thick. Broil in broiler from 8 to 15 minutes. After meat
is brown on one side, turn and brown on other side.
BROILED STEAK
Place steaks in broiler or pan under low flame-When half
done, salt and pepper. Baste with butter, lemon juice and wooster
sauce.
Mrs. Tom Hood
Compliments of
C. E. JORDAN E CO.
THE DELTA'S OLDEST & LARGEST FURNITURE DEALERS
LEONARD ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS
EMERSON & SPARTON RADIOS
ZYBNAUT
Representing Americas Finest Lines of
HIGH GRADE FURNITURE
Stores in
GREENVILLE & CLEVELAND
Page 32
The Delta's Best Cook Book
SPANISH STEAK
3 lbs. round steak
1 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup flour
1 cup water
1/2 cup butter
1 can tomatoes (No. 2.)
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
4 large onions sliced
1 cup minced green pepper
1 tablespoon minced parsley
Beat the steak well with the back of a heavy knife or wood
potato masher. Cover with the seasoned flour and beat flour well into
the steak. Dust off excess flour. Brown meat in the butter. Add
remaining ingredients and cook until meat is tender.
Mrs. C. L. Switzer
CRANBERRY JELLY
2 cups cranberries
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
Put berries and water on and let boil until berries pop.
Add
sugar and cook until, sugar is melted-about five minutes. If you
wish it without the skins run through seive before adding sugar.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
HAPPY FEED STORE
"Where Your Dollar Buys More"
HAPPY FEEDS IN RED BALL BAGS
POULTRY SUPPLIES -- BABY CHICKS
HENS, TURKEYS, DUCKS, PHEASANTS
P. O. BOX 2714
PHONE 365
GREENVILLE, MISSISSIPPI
Page 33
The Delta's Best Cook Book
MEAT BALLS
1 pound ground meat
1 small onion chopped finely
1/2 cup finely chopped celery
1/4 cup finely chopped parsley
2 cloves garlie
1 egg
Salt and pepper to taste
Mix thoroughly
Make into balls and fry brown
TAROS
Remove meat balls from skillet and fry:
1 small onion chopped finely
1/2 cup celery chopped finely
2 cloves garlic chopped finely
1/4 cup parsley chopped finely
Add to mixture:
1 can thick tomato paste
1 1/2 pts. water
fur
Let this cook for ten minutes then add meat balls
Simmer slowly for three hours.
SPAGHETTI
When meat balls and gravy have cooked three hours boil
separately: 1/2 pound spaghetti in three quarts boiling water for 15
minutes or until done. Drain water from spaghetti and add the gravy.
Mrs. Joe Scoffield
CRANBERRY JELLY
4 cups cranberries
1 cup boiling water
2 cups sugar
Pick over and wash berries. Place in a stew pan with boiling
water. Boil until all berries have popped (about 10 minutes). Pour
into a seive-mash through as much pulp as possible. Add 2 cups
sugar, return to the fire, bring slowly to a boil stirring constantly so
that all sugar is dissolved. Pour into sterilized jars or glasses.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
Page 34
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BAKED DUCK (French Style)
3 ducks (picked, washed, and left to marinate in the wine bath
for at least 6 hours or overnight) stuff with dressing and bake in a
moderate oven 1 hour or until done.
Wine Bath
1 pint claret
Several cloves
Dash of all-spice
1 sliced onion
1 sliced carrot
Piece of celery
Sprig of thyme
Bayleaf
Mix well and place ducks in the mixture, turning them from
time to time so that all parts are marinated.
Use any dressing desired.
Geese, rabbits, birds, squabs, or pork roast is excellent pre-
pared the same way.
CHICKEN CROQUETTES
3 or 4 lb. Hen
3 or 4 limbs celery
2 or 3 sprigs parsley
1 egg
Juice of one lemon
Salt and pepper to taste
Boil chicken until done-then bone it. Grind chicken, celery
and parsley together-Beat egg and add lemon juice, salt and pepper.
Make a medium white sauce. Add to this mixture.
Put in ice box to chill. Shape into balls.
Dip in beaten
egg, then in cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat.
Mrs. John A. Metcalf
H. N. ALEXANDER & SONS
Building Material
Phones 74 & 75
Page 36
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CHICKEN PIE
2 1/2 to 3 pound hen
1 tablespoon flour
1/2 tablespoon onion
1/2 cup celery (chopped)
1 green pepper (chopped)
4 hard boiled eggs
2 tablespoons water
PIE CRUST
Boil chicken until tender with celery and onion, salt to taste.
Save stock from chicken (about 2 cups). Cut chicken into medium
size pieces. Add hard boiled eggs and green pepper. Make paste
of water and flour to thicken stock. Put into a deep dish and put
crust on top. Bake in oven until crust is brown. Serves six.
Mrs. Owen McCoy
SPANISH RICE AND CHICKEN
1 two pound chicken
2 sweet red peppers
2 bruised garlic cloves
4 tomatoes or 1/2 can
2 white medium onions
Salt to taste
1/2 cup cooking oil (olive)
1/4 lb. Rice, 1 Bay leaf
Cut up chicken as for frying, fry in oil in deep frying pan;
add garlic and cloves; cook chicken until tender and golden brown;
add onions and peppers cut in slices; continue cooking until onions are
part brown; add tomatoes skinned and quartered; add enough rice
water or stock to cover, salt to taste, lay bay leaf on top so it can be
removed later; cover and simmer until rice is done; add broth or water
as needed.
Mrs. Dorothy Bell Griffin
CHICKEN A LA KING
1 can cream mushroom soup
1 egg yolk
1 cup cooked diced chicken
1/2 cup top milk
1/2 cup pimento
Put soup in sauce pan, add milk gradually, stir, heat to boil-
ing add chicken and pimento, cut in strips; add egg yolk, diluted with
some sauce; serve on toast or in patty shells.
Mrs. Hugh Wiley
Page 37
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CHICKEN PIE
1 4 or 5 pound hen
6 to 12 hard cooked eggs
1/2 cup rice
Salt and pepper to taste
Pie pastry or biscuit dough
Cook chicken with any desired seasoning until well done.
Chop meat, grind skins and mix. Cook rice in one quart of broth.
Into baking dish place rice and broth, chopped eggs and chicken.
Cover top with pastry or small biscuit. Dot with butter and bake
until brown. If pie is dry, make incision and pour in some broth or
cream. Serves 12 to 15 persons.
Mrs. N. E. Wingate
BROILED CHICKEN
Select chicken weighing 1 1/2 to 1 3/4 pounds.
Dress and wash. Split down back in halves. Place in shal-
low pan. Baste chicken with 3 tablespoons melted butter. Sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Place under broiler, set at 500 degrees. Baste
with drippings every 10 minutes. Turn chicken after 25 minutes and
cook other side 25 minutes. Cooking time 50 minutes.
Mrs. A. E. Landcaster
CHICKEN SALAD
5 or 6 pound hen
1 dozen hard boiled eggs
1 large stalk of celery
Homemade mayonnaise
Dash of red pepper
Cook chicken till very tender with a little celery. Mash eggs
with fork while still warm to shred them. Put in refrigerator to cool.
Add rest of ingredients and mix well. Serves 15.
Mrs. Owen McCoy
Greenville Dairy Products Co.
Highway 82
Phone 53
Greenville, Mississippi
GRADE A PASTEURIZED JERSEY MILK
Page 38
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Seafoods
E
Sauces
STUFFED CRAB
1 green pepper (minced)
2 eggs
1 onion (minced fine)
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons parsley
Dash of cayenne
1 pound crab meat
Bay leaf
2 cups bread crumbs (wet)
Thyme
Cook pepper and onion until soft, add parsley, crab meat,
crumbs, a sprig of thyme, 1 or two bay leaves and eggs. Mix well,
cook five minutes, fill crab shells. (If crab shells are not on hand
use artificial sea shells, tomato baskets, or green peppers. This same
mixture is delicious served on toast.
Mrs. Linda Haik
CREOLE GUMBO
2 cups cut okra
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 large onion,chopped
3 tablespoonsful fat
1 stalk celery, chopped
2 cloves garlic, chopped
2 tablespoonsful flour
1 green pepper, chopped
1 1/2 cups cleaned shrimp
1 No. 2 can tomatoes
1 quart hot water
1 cup oysters
1 teaspoonful salt
2 sprigs parsley, chopped
1/2 teaspoonful black pepper
Fry okra slowly in fat until soft, add onion, garlic and green
pepper; fry until onion' is soft; blend in flour, add tomatoes, add re-
maining ingredients, simmer slowly at least one hour. Gumbo should
be dark and thick. If canned shrimp is used, add the last five minutes
of cooking. Serve in soup.
Mrs. Orville Cadenhead
Page 39
The Delta's Best Cook Book
DEVILED SHRIMP HORS D'OEUVRES
8 cooked shrimp
8 rounds of bread
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1/4 teaspoon worcestershire sauce
Curry powder
Parsley
Place 1 shrimp on each round of bread. Combine mayonnaise
with worcestershire sauce and add curry powder to taste. Top
shrimp with sauce and garnish with small sprig parsley. Yield: 8
canapes.
Mrs. Fred Krutz
SHRIMP GUMBO
1 lb. okra (cut small)
3 pieces of garlic (minced)
2 onions chopped
1 sprig thyme
1 green pepper (chopped)
5 tablespoons tomato paste
1/2 cup parsley (minced)
3 bay leaves
4 lbs. shrimp
Salt and pepper
8 crabs (parboiled)
Boiling water
Fry okra until brown, add onion and pepper. Cook until
onions and pepper are soft. Add remaining ingredients, cover with
boiling water and cook until done. (About 1 hour).
Linda Haik
STUFFED CRAB
1 can white crab meat
2 boiled eggs
1 cup celery, chopped fine
1 small onion
1 small bell pepper
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons flour
1 can mushroom soup
1 teaspoon worcestershire sauce
Dash red pepper
Boil celery, onion and bell pepper until tender. Add every-
thing together. Fill crabshells with above. Sprinkle with cracker
crumbs and cheese. Bake at 350° until light brown. If you do not
have crab shells, bake in casserole dish. Serves 6 to 8.
Mrs. Innocent Loyacano
Page 41
The Delta's Best Cook Book
COCKTAIL SAUCE
1/2 cup catsup or chili sauce
Horseradish to taste
Few drops tabasco
3 tablespoons lemon juice
1/2 cup finely chopped celery
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce
Mix all ingredients together and put in screw top jar and
store in ice box.
BARBECUE SAUCE
2 1/2 cups tomato catsup
One onion chopped fine
TIMW
2 small pieces garlic, chopped fine
1/2 pound butter or margerine
2 tablespoons red hot sauce
Salt and pepper to taste
Juice of one lemon
Cook all together slowly for one hour, stirring to keep from
scorching.
BARBECUE SAUCE
1/4 cup Lee and Perrin sauce
2 cups catsup
1/2 cup mustard (with horseradish)
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup each celery, sweet pepper, onion
1 clove garlic
1/2 cup vinegar
2 tsp. salt
1 tsp. each of black and white pepper
1 tsp. red hot sauce
1 tsp. sugar
1/4 cup lemon juice
Simmer onion, celery and pepper in butter until tender. Add
other ingredients together and simmer for 30 minutes.
The late Ernest Kellner Sr.
HENRY T. CROSBY
"Delta Land"
LAND LOANS & INVESTMENTS
Page 42
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Cakes
WHITE FRUIT CAKE
1 cup butter
1 cup pineapple juice
6 egg whites
2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons baking powder
4 cups flour
1/2 pound citron
1 pound white raisins
1/2 cup pineapple
2 cups cocoanut (grated)
1 pound green cherries
1/2 pound red cherries
1 pound almonds
Sift and measure flour. Use 2 cups for dredging fruits.
Sift 2 cups with baking powder and a pinch of salt.
Cream butter and sugar and mix as in any fruit cake.
Beat
egg whites and fold in last. Bake in low oven.
Mrs. Ernest Smith
DEVILS FOOD CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
2 whole eggs
1/4 cake chocolate (3 sqs.)
Mix sugar and eggs; add milk and chocolate. Put. on in top
of double boiler and cook to the consistency of mush. Set aside to
cool. In a bowl mix:
3/4 cup butter (1 1/4 sticks)
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda mixed in a little hot water
1 teaspoon vanilla
Add the cooked mixture and mix well. A cup of pecans
may be added if desired. Bake in 375 degree oven until done. About
30 to 45 minutes. Do not over cook.
Mrs. Kate Sharkey
Page 43
The Delta's Best Cook Book
FRUIT CAKE
1 cup butter (heaping)
1 cup brown sugar
istrad
2 tablespoons coco
6 eggs
4 cups flour
1 cup molasses
C
1 cup strong coffee
1 cup grape juice
1 glass apple jelly
1 teaspoon soda
1
1 pound raisins
1 pound currents
1 pound nuts
1 pound figs
1/2 pound cherries
1/2 pound pineapple
1 pound dates
1/2 pound orange peel
1/2 pound candied ginger
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon nut meg
1 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon cloves
Soak fruit and spices over night in the grape juice-cream
butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs to butter and sugar then add the
coco and coffee-Dissolve soda in little water and pour into molasses
and add to rest of the mixture. Add the beaten egg whites and half
of the flour. Dredge the fruit in the other half of the flour, and add
the two mixtures. Bake very slowly 2 or 4 hours. Makes about 12
pounds.
Mrs. C. C. Castillow
SPONGE CAKE
5 eggs (beaten separately)
1 cup sugar
1 cup flour
Vanila
Mix all ingredients together bake in loaf of muffin pan. This
makes 18 muffins.
Mrs. Tom Hood
baosga
TATUM MUSIC AND APPLIANCE
EXCLUSIVE CROSLEY DEALER
507 Washington Ave.
Phone 183
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 44
The Delta's Best Cook Book
WHITE FRUIT CAKE
1 1/2 cups butter
1 pound citron
6 eggs
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon nutmeg
4 cups sifted flour
1/2 cup whiskey
1 pound pecans
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 pound pineapple
1 pound cherries
1 pound white raisins
Mix 1 cup flour with fruits and nuts, sift other dry ingredients
together, cream butter, add sugar. Add unbeaten eggs one at the
time. Alternate flour and liquid, add fruit mixture last. Bake
in slow oven.
Mrs. Robert Mann
AMBROSIA CAKE
3 eggs
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 cup buttermilk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons soda, mixed in buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cake chocolate
1 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
Mix and bake in two cake tins.
"FILLING"
2 cups sugar
1 pinch soda
1 cup sweet milk
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 tablespoon butter
Boil until thick, then add:
1 fresh cocoanut, grated
1 cup pecans
1 cup raisins
2 oranges, grated
Spread between layers and on top. Then cover cake with
icing.
"ICING"
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup sweet milk
3 tablespoons cocoa
Boil until forms hard ball when tested in cold water.
Pour
into 2 beaten egg whites. Beat until cool. Spread on cake.
Mrs. Hugh Wiley
Page 45
The Delta's Best Cook Book
WHITE LOAF CAKE
1/2 cup butter
6 egg whites
1/2 cup flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat butter until creamy. Add sugar gradually. Mix dry
ingredients. Add alternately with the milk and flour to the butter
mixture. Add flavoring and fold in egg whites. Set oven at 300
degrees, raise temperature every 15 minutes until it reaches 350 de-
grees. Bake one hour.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
LADY CAKE
1 stick butter
1/2 cup milk
1 cup sugar
Whites of 5 eggs (beaten stiff)
2 cups flour (sifted)
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 level teaspoons baking powder
Cream butter, add sugar, cream again. Alternate flour and
milk. Add flavoring and baking powder. Fold in egg whites lightiy.
Pour into two 9 inch pans. Bake in 350 degree oven about 25 min.
"FILLING"
4 egg whites (beaten stiff)
1 pound sugar (made into simple syrup)
Cook syrup until threads from spoon. Pour over egg whites,
beating constantly. Use any desired flavor.
Put between layers
and ice over top.
Miss Ann Moore
Joe Gow Nue Co.
STORE NO. 1
STORE NO. 2
200 Washington
601 Nelson St.
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 46
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ANGEL FOOD CAKE
Whites of 11 eggs
1 cup sifted flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon almond flavoring
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
Sift sugar 5 times and add gradually to well beaten whites.
Sift flour 4 times, add cream of tartar and sift again. Then add flour
and flavoring. Put in pan as quickly as possible after mixing. Bake
at
350°
for 1 hour. (Delicious baked in two layers which requires
just 30 minutes cooking.)
"FROSTING"
2 cups sugar
6 tablespoons water
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup white corn syrup
Put sugar, water and syrup in sauce pan and cook until it
forms soft ball in cold water. Turn off flame and let stand over
burner while quickly beating egg whites. Pour syrup over egg
whites beating constantly. Add vanilla. Beat until cool enough
to hold its shape. Then spread on cake.
Mrs. W. N. Gist, Sr.
EGG NOG ICE BOX CAKE
7 eggs
1 1/2 pints whipped cream
20 tablespoons whiskey
7 tablespoons sugar
1 doz. almond macaroons
2 tablespoons gelatin
1 1/2 doz. lady fingers
Beat egg (separately) adding sugar to whites; add whiskey
slowly to beaten yolks; dissolve gelatin in a little cold water add to
yolks. Fold in whites of eggs (beaten stiffly) and whipped cream.
Line mold with lady fingers, after splitting so they will stand
up around bowl. Use crumbs to line bottom of bowl. Add part of
egg nog mixture-then a layer of macaroon crumbs. Continue until
all mixture is used, leave in ice box over night. Top with whipped
cream to which sugar is added. This takes 3/4 pint more cream.
Mrs. Tom Hood
Page 47
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CARAMEL FUDGE CAKE
4 tablespoons butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup flour
1 cup nut meats chopped
1 teaspoon vanila
salt to taste
Cream butter and sugar together.
Mix with other ingredi-
ents and bake in a slow oven 40 minutes.
Cut in squares and roll in
powdered sugar.
Mrs. Ike E. Barnette
JAM LOAF CAKE
4 whole eggs (beaten)
1 cup butter
2 cups jam
3 cups pecans
2 cups sugar
4 cups flour
1 1/2 cups seedless raisins
1 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in 1 cup buttermilk)
Cream butter and half of sugar; beat egg yolks light with
other half of sugar; add to butter and sugar. Put soda in buttermilk;
add with a little flour to this mixture, then add egg whites and rest
of flour; add spices, raisins, pecans and jam. Bake in loaf pan.
Mrs. Walter Smith
ERNEST WALDAUER AGENCY
INSURANCE - REAL ESTATE
105 South Poplar Street
Phone 153
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 48
The Delta's Best Cook Book
RED DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
1/2 cup water
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
1/2 cup cocoa
2/3 cup butter
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 eggs
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix water, soda and cocoa, allow to stand while you cream
butter and sugar; add eggs one at the time; beat well. Sift flour and
add salt. Add flour to creamed butter alternating first mixture and
milk. Bake 45 minutes in slow oven then spread with seven minute
icing. (see frostings).
Mrs. Hobart Ogle
DATE TORTE
1 cup sugar
1 cup dates (cut)
1 cup broken nuts
2 eggs (unbeaten)
1/2 cup flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
Cream sugar and egg.
Add flour, then other ingredients.
Grease and flour pan. Bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. Angel
food cake pan recommended or a pan 9 by 9.
Serve with whipped
cream.
Mrs. T. B. Lewis
THREE LAYER YELLOW CAKE
1/2 cup shortening
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 teaspoon vanila
2 1/4 cups cake flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup milk
Cream shortening; add the sugar slowly, beating in well. Add
well beaten egg yolks and beat until well blended. Add vanila ex-
tract. Sift together dry ingredients and add alternately with milk
to first mixture. Mix in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in greased
layer cake pans in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. This makes
3 layers.
Page 49
The Delta's Best Cook Book
FUDGE CAKE
4 eggs
1 stick butter
2 cups flour
2 cups sugar
2 cups nuts
1 teaspoon vanila
4 squares unsweetened chocolate
Cream butter and sugar; beat each whole egg separately, add-
ing pinch of salt to each egg. Add one at the time to the butter and
sugar. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler; add flour, chocolate,
nuts and vanila. Bake in pan lined with greased brown paper. Bake
30 minutes at 350 degrees.
Mrs. Hugh Gamble
BANANA BUTTERSCOTCH CAKE
1 3/4 cups brown sugar
3 cups sifted cake flour
3/4 cup butter
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 eggs well beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine 1 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup butter and 1/4 cup milk.
Cook to hard ball stage or 250 degrees F., gradually adding remaining
milk, heated, stirring constantly. Cool. Cream remaining shorten-
ing until soft. Blend in remaining brown sugar and add eggs, beat-
ing until light and fluffy. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to
creamed mixture alternately with butterscotch mixture. Flavor
with vanilla. Bake in 10 inch greased loaf pan in a moderate oven
(350 degrees F.) about 50 or 60 minutes. Frost with icing made by
mashing 1 banana into 2 1/2 cups confectioners sugar. Add a dash
of salt, 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Top cake with sliced bananas just
before serving.
Mrs. Fred Keel
PECAN CAKE
1/2 cup butter
2 cups sugar
1 cup milk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
5 egg whites
1 cup shelled pecans
Cream sugar and butter; sift flour and baking powder, alter-
nate with milk to first mixture. Add vanilla and pecans, fold in egg
whites. Bake.
Mrs. Ernest Waldauer
Page 51
HUSBAND'S (TOMATO SOUP) CAKE
3/4 cup Crisco
3 tsp. baking powder
1 1/2 cups tomato soup
1 1/2 tsp. cinnamon
3 cups flour
1 1/2 tsp. nutmeg
3/4 cup water
1 tsp. ground cloves
2 tsp. soda
1 1/2 cups raisins
3/4 tsp. salt
1 1/2 cups nutmeats
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine soup with water and soda. Add to Crisco mixed
with sifted dry ingredients. Stir in raisins and nuts. Bake one hour
in moderate oven.
Frost with frosting made by combining the following ingredi-
ents:
1 pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese
Vanilla extract
1 egg yolk
Powdered sugar
Mrs. Ernest Smith
The Delta's Best Cook Book
GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE (NO SUGAR)
1/2 cup shortening
1 cup raisins
2 eggs
1 tsp. cinnamon
3/4 cup sweet milk
1 tsp. soda
1/2 tsp. allspice
1 cup chopped pecans
1 cup honey or (half honey, half molasses)
3 cups graham cracker crumbs (fine)
2 tablespoons warm water
Roll crackers to fine crumbs. Cream shortening, honey and
eggs together. Add crumbs and spices. Add fruits and nuts. Mix
well. Bake in a greased and floured pan in oven 350 degrees for
1 hour and 15 minutes.
Frances Phillips
ROCKS
6 eggs
1 teaspoon allspice
3/4 cup butter
1 1/2 pounds sugar
1 large pkg. dates
6 cups shelled pecans
1 teaspoon soda (dissolve in 3 tbsp. warm water)
1 teaspoon cinnamon
6 cups sifted flour (or enough flour to make a stiff dough)
Mix all ingredients. Bake in a slow oven on greased paper.
Mrs. H. N. Alexander
DOUGHNUTS (Took first prize in "Delta Fair" in fall of 1911)
1 quart sifted flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 eggs
1/4 cup shortening
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
Sift together flour, salt, baking powder, and nutmeg until
mixed. Cream eggs, shortening and sugar until light; add milk and
sifted flour. Some qualities of flour require more milk to make a
soft dough. Roll out about 1 inch thick and cut with a ring cutter.
When all are cut out, have ready the frying kettle with sufficient hot
fat to float the doughnuts while frying. Test with a piece of dough.
If it comes immediately to the surface it is hot enough to begin frying.
Cook about 3 minutes, turning frequently to keep them smooth and
like balls. When taken from fat, dust with powdered sugar, and
cinnamon. (If you like cinnamon).
Mrs. H. L. Wells
Page 53
DOUGHNUTS
1 level tablespoon butter
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon soda
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
3/4 cup sour milk
2 cups flour (after sifting)
Cream butter and sugar together; then add eggs, beat
thoroughly. Add nutmeg and sour milk and beat until very light;
add baking powder and soda to flour; add flour to other ingredients
2 cups at a time until well mixed to a soft dough. Roll out about
1/2 inch thick and cut with doughnut cutter. Fry in deep fat until
brown.
If desired sprinkle with 1/2 cup sugar mixed with 1 teaspoon
cinnamon.
Mrs. Frank Case
CREAM PUFFS
1 cup flour
1 cup boiling water
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
1/2 cup shortening (at least 1/2 butter)
Sift flour, measure; add salt and sift again. Combine shorten-
ing and boiling water in sauce pan; keep over low heat until butter
is
melted. Add flour all at one time and stir vigorously over low
heat until mixture forms a ball and leaves the side of the pan; remove
from heat. Add unbeaten eggs, one at the time, beating thoroughly
after each addition. Continue beating until a thick dough is formed.
Drop by tablespoons onto a greased baking sheet, about 2 inches apart.
Bake in hot oven (425° F.) about 50 minutes or until beads of
moisture no longer appear on surface. Do not open oven door during
early part of baking.
When cool cut a slit in the side of each and fill with cream
filling or sweetened whipped cream. Sprinkle tops with confectioners
sugar. Makes one dozen large cream puffs.
Cream Filling
2/3 cup sugar
2 cups milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 eggs or 4 egg yolks (slightly beaten)
5 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine dry ingredients in top of double boiler; stir in milk
gradually. Cook over boiling water until thickened, stirring con-
stantly. Cover and cook for 10 minutes longer, stirring occasionally.
Stir a little of the hot mixture into slightly beaten eggs; slowly stir
into the remaining hot mixture. Cook over hot (not boiling water)
for 2 minutes stirring constantly. Chill; add vanilla.
NOTE: for a richer filling add 2 tablespoons butter to the
hot cooked filling; or fold in 1/2 cup heavy whipped cream, after the
filling has been chilled.
Miss Margaret Krutz
The Deita's Best Cook Book
Two
FOOL-PROOF FROSTING
1 cup white sugar
1/3 cup water
2 tablespoons karo syrup
Pinch Salt
2 egg whites
Boil sugar, water, karo and salt together until it spins a thread
then slowly pour over two beaten egg whites. Constantly beating,
continue beating until frosting is thick, then beat in two tablespoons
powdered sugar.
Mrs. M. L. Ridgeway
ORANGE GLACE FROSTING
4 tablespoons sugar
4 oranges
1 1/2 cups orange juice and water
3 tablespoons cornstarch
Dash of salt
Combine cornstarch, sugar, salt, orange juice and water; cook
over direct heat 5 minutes or until it thickens. Add 1 teaspoon orange
rind and sections from 4 oranges. Drained well, sweetened if neces-
sary. Cool; spread between layers.
CARMEL ICING
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup milk
Put on and cook until sugar dissolves, cooking slowly. 1/2 cup
sugar, in another small pan and melt over low heat. When melted
pour in first part, cook until soft ball stage; set off to cool. Add 4
tablespoons butter; beat until creamy; add 1 teaspoon vanilla.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
Page 56
The Delta's Best Cook Book
BOILED FROSTING
2 cups sugar
1/4 cup white corn syrup
6 tablespoons water
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla
Cook the sugar, syrup and water together over a surface burn-
er until it reaches a temperature of 240 degrees, or forces a soft ball
in cold water. Turn off the fire and let the syrup stand over the
warm burner while quickly beating the egg whites. Pour the syrup
slowly over the beaten egg whites, beating with a spoon while adding
the vanilla and beat until cold. This mixture will hold its shape
when spread on a cake. If it cooks a little too much and hardens
too rapidly add 1 tablespoon of hot water. If not cooked sufficiently
it hardens. Add a tablespoon of powdered sugar. Put any left over
frosting in a jar; cover tightly, and keep in refrigerator. It will keep
fresh for a week. Then if necessary, add a small amount of hot water
and beat until it is a good consistency to spread.
Mrs, William Lyon
WHITE ICING
4 egg whites
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
3 tablespoons white karo syrup
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
Vanilla to taste
Boil sugar, water and karo until it will form a soft ball when
dropped in cold water. Pour over well beaten egg whites and beat,
beat, beat. Add powdered sugar and spread.
Mrs. R. N. Middleton
SEVEN MINUTE ICING
1 egg white (unbeaten)
7/8 cup granulated sugar
3 tablespoons cold water
Extract
Place egg white, sugar and water in top of double boiler.
Place over boiling water and beat with beater for seven minutes. Add
1/2 teaspoon flavoring, beat and spread on cake.
Mrs. Hobart Ogle
Page 57
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Cookies
SUGARLESS, BUTTERLESS CHOCOLATE SLICES
2 pounds Nestles chocolate drops
2 cups unchopped pecans
1 can Eagle Brand condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
Melt chocolate in double boiler; add milk. Beat until smooth;
add nuts and vanilla. Line deep, narrow pan with wax paper, pour
in mixture. Set in refrigerator until cold. Lift out and slice.
Mrs. H. L. Wetherbee
DATE COOKIES
1 cup chopped dates
1 cup chopped nuts
1 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons water
2 eggs
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
Mix nuts, dates, and add sugar, water, and beaten eggs. Add
the flour, baking powder and vanilla to the mixture. Spread in pan
and bake in moderate oven. Cut in squares when cold.
CHOCOLATE PECAN CRISP
Melt 1 stick butter, pour over 1 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons
chocolate:
2 eggs beaten separately
3/4 cup sifted flour
Vanilla
1 cup pecans
Mix all ingredients, bake in shallow pan.
Cut in strips.
Dust with powdered sugar.
Mrs. Tom Hood
Page 59
The Delta's Best Cook Book
TOFFEE COOKIES
1 cup shortening
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons cinnamon
1/2 cup ground nuts
Cream shortening, add sugar. Add unbeaten egg yolk and
vanilla. Sift flour, salt and cinnamon together. Add to the mixture
a little at the time blending well after each addition. Pat out with
hands to 1/4 inch in thickness on well greased cookie sheet, spread top
with unbeaten egg white, sprinkle with ground nuts, mark in squares
with silver knife. Bake 30 minutes in slow oven 275 degrees. Let
cool on cookie sheet, lift off and bake in squares.
Mrs. R. o. Norris
PECAN ROLLS
1/2 pound butter
4 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 cups chopped pecans
Pinch salt
Bring butter to room temperature and cream until fluffy.
Add powdered sugar and vanilla. Then work flour sifted with salt.
Last, add chopped pecans. Break off bits of dough about as big as a
small walnut and shape quickly into rolls about the size of your finger.
Bake in slow oven (300°) about 40 minutes or until delicately brown.
While still warm, roll in powdered sugar.
Mrs. Wiley Mock
LEVY, & RODE
Complete Home Furnishings
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 60
The Delta's Best Cook Book
OAT MEAL COOKIES
1/2 cup shortening
1/2 cup pecans
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 eup flour
2 cups oat meal
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sweet milk
1/4 cup cocoanut
Cream shortening and sugar, add egg beaten. Sift flour,
baking powder, soda together. Add to creamed shortening, sugar
and egg. Add oat meal, cocoanut, pecans and vanilla. Kneed until
well mixed; drop i nspoonfuls on greased cookie sheet, mash flat with
fork. Bake in moderate oven.
Mrs. Walter Smith
ORANGE NUT STICKS
Beat 4 whole eggs. Add 1 pound brown sugar
2 cups sifted flour
2 cups pecans
18 orange gum drop wedges (eut firre)
Mix all ingredients-Pour in a shallow pan. Bake slowly at
300 degrees for 30 minutes. Cut in strips; dust with powdered sugar.
Mrs. Tom Hood
DATE AND NUT BARS
1/2 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs
1 cup brown sugar
1 pkg. pitted dates 7 1/2 oz.
1 cup nut meats
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together. Beat the
eggs until light and fluffy. Gradually add the sugar, beating while
adding. Add dates and nuts which have been cut into small pieces.
Add the dry ingredients, melted butter an vanilla. Pour into greased
7 1/4 x 10 1/2 x 2 inch pan and bake at 325° for 40 minutes.
Mrs. William Lyon
Page 61
The Delta's Best Cook Book
OLD FASHIONED TEA CAKES
1/2 cup butter
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add the beaten eggs then
the vanilla and lastly the flour and baking powder sifted together.
Roll thinly, cut into rounds or diamonds and bake 10 minutes in a
moderate oven.
Mrs. H. H. Wells
I
ICE BOX TEA CAKES
1 cup butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup white sugar
4 eggs (beaten together)
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups nuts
8 cups sifted flour
ATT
Mix all ingredients. Work into two rolls. Put in ice box.
Chill. Slice and bake.
Mrs. Tom Hood
BUTTER FINGERS
2 sticks of soft butter
4 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 cups flour
1 cup finely chopped nuts
2 teaspoons vanilla
Mix all ingredients and roll in cakes about the size of your
little finger. Bake in very slow oven 35 or 40 minutes. When cold
roll in powdered sugar.
Mrs. Kate Sharkey
Queen City Lumber Co.
LUMBER & BUILDING MATERIAL
- PHONES -
2300
2301
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 62
The Delta's Best Cook Book
ICE BOX COOKIES
5 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon soda
3 eggs (slightly beaten)
1 1/2 cups chopped nuts
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup granulated sugar
3 sticks butter
Sift flour once and measure; add soda and sift three times.
Beat eggs whole; add sugar. Beat, then add hot melted butter. Beat,
add nuts and flour. Let set in ice box until stiff enough to handle.
Make into rolls and wrap in wax paper. Put in ice box overnight
and slice 1/4 inch thick and cook in quick oven. Make rolls about 6
inches long and 2 inches in diameter. They are better when sliced
thin. Dough must be kept in the ice box until sliced.
Miss Snodie Howard
OLD FASHIONED TEA CAKES
1/3 cup butter
3 cups sifted flour
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/1 cup orange juice
1 egg
Grated rind of 1 orange
Cream butter and sugar, add orange juice, rind and egg.
Beat thoroughly. Add a little of this mixture at the time to flour,
salt and baking powder. Place on a floured board and roll thin. Cut
with a large, round cutter. Place on a greased cookie sheet, sprinkle
with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven (350°).
Mrs. A. G. Wiley
Johl E Bergman
"THE SHOE MEN"
Greenville, Mississippi
Page 63
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Duiding
DATE PUDDING
1 cup dates
1 cup sugar
1 cup shelled pecans
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs beaten separately
1 tablespoon or more of flour
Dredge the nuts and dates with flour. Beat whites of eggs
until stiff and fold in baking powder. Beat yellows in separate bowl
and add the sugar. Now mix all together and bake in casserole at
moderate temperature (about 350° ) for 30 minutes or until eggs are
cooked.
Mrs. W. N. Gist, Sr.
WINE PUDDING
4 eggs
Juice of 2 or 3 lemons
1/3 cup red wine
1/2 cup sugar
Break eggs in top of double boiler. Beat until frothy. Add
lemon juice. Beat uhtil combined. Add wine, continue to beat over
hot water until pudding thickens. Remove from heat. Pour into
Sherbert glasses, chill and serve.
Mrs. Louis C. Davidson, Jr.
Page 65
The Delta's Best Cook Book
GRATED SWEET POTATO PONE (Good) OLD FASHIONED
5 medium sized sweet potatoes
3 eggs beaten
1 can condensed milk
1/2 cup molasses
1 stick butter
Cinnamon and nutmeg
Mix grated potatoe, eggs, milk, butter and molasses and add
cinnamon and nutmeg. Bake in oven or pressure cooker. If cooked
in pressure cooker, brown in oven.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
MOCK CHEESE TART
36 Graham crackers
6 eggs
2 cans Eagle Brand milk
1 stick butter
Juice and grated rind of 3 lemons
Roll graham crackers, cream butter and mix together; line a
greased form mold forming a pastry on bottom and sides, then fill
with mixture made of:
Beat eggs separately, add lemon juice and rind to milk; add
well beaten egg yolks, fold in stiffly beaten whites. Put into mold,
sprinkle top with graham cracker crumbs. Start baking in moderate
oven 300 degrees for 40 minutes then bake for 10 minutes on storage
heat.
Mrs. Kate Sharkey
Theater
Bowling
Center Amusements
Sport for the Entire Family
Soda Fountain
Highway 82
Page 66
The Delta's Best Cook Book
"
"
Pastries
CHEESE PIE
6 eggs, if small, 4 if large
1 cup milk
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Pinch salt
1/2 stick butter
Mix and cook in uncooked pie crust.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
ORANGE PIE
Grated rind of one orange
Juice of two oranges
Large cup sugar
Heaping tablespoonful flour
3 egg yolks (well beaten)
2 tablespoonsful melted butter
Stir together sugar, flour, egg yolks, adding butter last. Cook-
ed pastry.
Mrs. C. A. Parks
CUSTARD PIE
2 cups milk
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, nutmeg and vanilla and
mix well. Add scalded milk. Line pie plate with pastry and cook
about five minutes. Pour in mixture and bake at 450° for fifteen
minutes and 325° for 25 minutes. (If cocoanut pie is desired, add
one cup grated cocoanut to filling mixture.
Mrs. H. H. Carroll
Page 67
The Delta's Best Cook Book
LEMON ICE BOX PIE
3 egg yolks
Juice of 2 lemons
1 can condensed milk
Beat eggs well then add condensed milk. Put in pie crust of
vanilla wafers. Make meringue of egg whites. Brown in oven.
Cool.
Place in refrigerator.
Mrs. David Bates
AMBROSIA PIE
Juice of 2 oranges
Juice of 1 lemon
Grated orange rind
3 eggs (separated)
1/2 cup flour (sifted)
1 cup grated fresh cocoanut
Mix sugar and flour. Add orange and lemon juice to this
dry mixture. Add slightly beaten egg yolks and orange rind. Cook
until thick. Put in cooked pie crust, Add cocoanut on top then top
with meringue. Brown. Always add 2 level tablespoons of sugar
to each egg white.
Mrs. D. D. Gorton
LEMON PIE
5 eggs (separated)
Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon
1 tablespoon butter (melted)
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons cream
Beat 5 yolks and 2 whites of eggs; add sugar, lemon juice and
rind; add cream and butter. Pour into pie shell and cook until almost
firm, leaving soft spot in center. Beat 3 egg whites for meringue, add-
ing 1 tablespoon sugar for each white.
Mrs. Tom Hood
PECAN PIE
2 cups brown sugar
2 whole eggs
1/3 cup milk
1/3 cup butter
Pecans
Mix sugar with melted butter and eggs, which have been
beaten. Put in uncooked pie shell and put pecans on top as thick as
you wish. Bake 40 minutes or until crust is brown and filling is done.
Do not have oven to hot.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
Page 71
The Delta's Best Cook Book
SOUTHERN PECAN PIE
1 cup pecans
3 eggs
1/3 cup sugar
1 cup corn syrup
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup melted butter
1 - 9 inch unbaked pie shell
Line pastry shell with pecans.
Beat eggs, add corn syrup,
sugar, salt and butter; turn into crust. Bake in hot oven 425 degrees
for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to moderate (350°) and cook 40 minutes
longer. Cool before serving.
Mrs. Fred Krutz
CHOCOLATE PIE
2 eggs
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
2 heaping tablespoons flour
1/3 cup coco
lump butter
Beat egg yolks and gradually beat in sugar. Make paste
of coco and flour with a little milk and add to yolk and sugar then add
balance of milk. Cook in double boiler until thick and pour into
partly baked pie crust and finish cooking. Then top with meringue
and bake slowly until it browns.
Mrs. R. R. Barwick
ANGEL FOOD PIE
Beat 4 egg whites until almost stiff. Add 1/2 cup sugar, add
1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat until mixture stands alone. Put into baked
pie shell. Place in slow oven (300°) and bake until whites are slight-
ly browned about 30 minutes. Remove from oven and allow to cool.
Whip one cup whipping cream, add 1/2 cup sugar and 1/2 teaspoon
vanilla. Spread evenly over the pie. Sprinkle with 1 cup nut meats
ground.
Crust
1 cup flour
1 pinch salt
4 tablespoons shortening
Add enough ice water to hold mixture together.
Bake in
hot oven.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
Page 73
The Delta's Best Cook Book
MOLASSES PIE
3 whole eggs
1 scant cup sugar
1 tablespoon flour
1 cup molasses
1 lump butter
2 tablespoons buttermilk
Mix all ingredients and bake slowly in unbaked pie crust.
Mrs. R. R. Barwick
KARO PECAN PIE
4 eggs well beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup blue label Karo
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons corn meal
3 tablespoons butter
1 pinch salt
Beat eggs well. Add other ingredients. Add chopped pecans.
Have pie shell partly baked. Pour mixture into the shell and finish
baking at 350°.
Mrs. Thomas Sellars
"APPLE CRUM TOP PIE" FILLING
Slice 8 or 10 medium size apples very thin. Place in deep
pan. Mix with 2/3 cup sugar. Dot with butter and nutmeg. Add
2 or 4 tablespoons water.
TOP
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup butter
1 cup flour
Cream butter and sugar well. Then add flour, mix well,
spread on top apples. Cook 35 or 40 minutes in moderate oven.
Mrs. A. D. Bradley
LEMON PIE
2 egg yolks
1 cup sugar
1 cup milk
2 heaping tablespoons flour
Cook custard in double boiler until thick, then add juice of 2
lemons, pour into partly baked pie shell, bake until done. Then put
meringue on top and bake until it browns.
Mrs. R. R. Barwick
Page 74
The Delta's Best Cook Book
Frozen
VANILA ICE CREAM (This recipe makes 2 gal.)
Vanila to taste
4 qts. milk
4 cups sugar
5 or 6 heaping tablespoons flour
10 or 12 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
Put milk in double boiler or large container over boiling wat-
er. Blend sugar flour and salt while milk is heating. Dip up enough
warm milk to make a paste with flour and sugar, stir paste into milk.
Beat eggs and add to mixture. Stir until spoon coats. Cover with
tight lid and turn flame real low. Cook 10 minutes. Stirring a few
minutes. Cool; add vanilla in freezer.
Mrs. Wm. Taggart
CUSTARD ICE CREAM
4 eggs
2 cups sugar
1/3 cup flour
1 quart milk
2 tall cans evaporated milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 pt. whipping cream
Separate eggs. Beat yolks and add dry ingredients which
have been mixed. Add quart milk and cook until thickened in
double boiler. Cool, add evaporated milk and cream whipped. Beat
whites and add to mixture. Add vanilla to taste. If fruit is desired add
when mixture is half frozen. This mixture is not recommended for
mechanical refrigerators, but for hand freezers.
Mrs. H. H. Carroll
Page 76
The Delta's Best Cook Book
SUGAR
Candies
CARAMEL CANDY
1/2 cup sugar, browned
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup milk
2 cups white sugar
1 cup cream
Melt 1/2 cup of sugar until brown then add the scalded milk;
add cream and cook slowly, until soft ball forms when tested in cold
water, then cool for a few minutes; add butter. Cut into squares be-
fore too hard.
Helen Miller
BROWN AND WHITE KISSES
2 egg whites
1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup bitter chocolate
Beat egg whites until stiff; add sugar gradually when
thoroughly mixed pour in chocolate. Drop on pan lined with brown
paper; bake 35 minutes in oven 275 degrees or until brown.
Floriana Donovan
Page 78
The Delta's Best Cook Book
CHOCOLATE FUDGE (Without sugar.)
1 cup nuts (chopped)
6 marshmallows (cut fine)
2 seven ounce pkgs. chocolate
1 can Eagle Brand Con. milk (nonsweetened)
Melt chocolate over hot water; stir in milk; add marshmallows.
After all is melted remove from stove; add nuts, don't stir. Pour in
dish to cool 4 or 5 hours. Then cut in squares.
Mrs. H. L. Wells
CHOCOLATE FUDGE
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanila
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons karo
1 tablespoon butter
2 tablespoons coco
Pinch of salt
1/2 cup cream or whole milk
Boil sugar, karo and water until it threads. Add cream,
butter, coco, vanilla and salt; stir until well mixed. Cook until soft
ball forms in cup of cold water. Remove from heat and cool until
luke warm. When cool beat vigorously. If it hardens too fast add
a teaspoon cream at a time and continue to beat. When creamy add
nuts and drop on a greased platter.
Jo Beth Williams
BUTTERSCOTCH
1 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
1 stick butter
1 cup dark karo
2 tablespoons water
Cook at a slow boil until a candy string and then pour in
a pan.
Mrs. Fred O'Bannon
CREAM CANDY, PULLED
3 cups sugar
1 cup of water hot or cold
Pinch of soda
Pinch of salt
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 lump of butter (size of walnut)
Dissolve on a slow fire and cook without stirring. Cook fast
and when almost done drop a cup of cream in but do not let it stop
boiling. When it threads drop a little in cold water, if it is hard enough
to crack on cup, it is done. Pour on a buttered slab or dish. Let cool
and pull for 30 minutes. Cream may be omitted.
Mrs H. L. Wells
Page 79
CAKES
No. 1. Eggless, Milkless, Butterless
FRUIT CAKE
Part No. 1
Part No. 2
2 cups raisins
4 cups flour
2 cups currants
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup citron and nuts
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 cup shortening
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
Mix all ingredients together,
Mix all ingredients together,
set on the fire and boil 10 minutes add to No. 1 and stir well. Put
until thick, then set away to cool. in loaf pans lined with greased
paper and bake one hour in a slow
oven.
No. 2. FRUIT CAKE
Part No. 1
Part No. 2
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 1/4 cups water
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/: cup shortening
2 cups flour
2 ounces citron, cut fine
5 teaspoons baking powder
Mix No. 1 together, set on
Mix No. 2 together thoroughly,
fire and boil 5 minutes; set away add to No. 1 and stir well; bake
to cool.
in loaf pans about 1 hour, slow
oven.
No. 3. MARBLE CAKE
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups lard
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons cocoa
2 teaspoons of baking powder
3/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup cold coffee
Sift all dry ingredients together; then rub the lard into the mix-
ture and divide into two equal parts. To one part add the coffee and
cocoa. To the other, the milk, and vanilla. Mix each part well and
putrithem in alternate layers in à buttered and floured cake pan and
bake in a moderate oven 3/4 of an hour.
3
No. 4. DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE
2 cups brown sugar
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup butter
1/3 cake of baker's chocolate,
1/2 cup sour milk
grated and dissolved in 1/2 cup
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
water
Cream together the sugar and butter; then add the sour milk into
which the soda has been dissolved. Then stir in the flour and choc-
olate. Bake 45 min.
No. 5. CHOCOLATE CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup butter
1 square baker's chocolate
1/2 cup sour milk
1/2 cup of boiling water
2 scant cups of flour
Cream sugar and butter; dissolve soda in sour milk and add to
sugar and butter. Dissolve chocolate in the boiling water and add to
the mixture; stir in the flour and bake 30 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 6. BOILED CAKE
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1/2 cup lard
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup hot water
1 1/2 cups flour
1 cup raisins
1 teaspoon baking soda
Boil sugar, lard, raisins and hot water together for 3 minutes and
set away to cool; then add the flour, spices and soda and mix well.
Put in a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven.
No. 7. QUEEN'S CAKE
1 cup sugar
2 cups sifted flour
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup lard
2 teaspoons mixed spices
1 cup seedless raisins
Cream sugar and lard; dissolve soda in the/sour milk and add to
sugar and lard; stir well and add flour; mix smooth and add spices and
raisins. Put in a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven.
No. 8. EGGLESS LOAF CAKE
1/2 cup butter
3 cups flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
Cream sugar and butter; then add milk; stir until sugar is dis-
solving; then stir in gradually the flour sifted together with baking
powder and cornstarch. Mix well and bake in loaf pan; moderate oven.
4
No. 9. RAISIN CAKE
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 cup lard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
4 cups flour
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups sour milk
1 lb. raisins, seeded and cut
1 teaspoon baking powder or soda
Cream sugar and lard; if soda is used, dissolve in sour milk; if
baking powder, sift with the flour; add the sour milk to the sugar and
lard; stir well; then add all the dry ingredients sifted together; mix
well; then stir in the raisins and flavor with orange and vanilla blended;
3/4 hours in medium oven.
No. 10. SPICE CAKE
1 cup dark molasses
2 1/2 cups flour
2 tablespoons of butter
1 cup raisins
1 cup sour milk with 2 level tea-
1 teaspoon cinnamon
spoons of soda or same of 1/2 teaspoon cloves
sweet milk with 2 teaspoons 1/2 teaspoon allspice.
baking powder
Mix molasses and butter; add milk, and then the flour, raisins,
and spices; mix thoroughly and put in loaf pans and bake 1 hour in a
slow oven.
No. 11. EGGLESS LAYER CAKE
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon soda
3 cups sugar
2 teaspoons lemon
5 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
Mix cream, sugar, salt and lemon extract together; dissolve so la
in two tablespoons of cold water and add to the mixture. Stir in the
flour a little at a time till quite smooth. Butter two cake pans, fill half
full of batter and bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Use any filling
desired.
No. 12. BANANA CAKE
2 cups sliced banana
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup butter
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder
Mash bananas with sugar; add the water, butter and baking pow-
der and enough flour to make a doughh that drops easily from a spoon.
Bake in shallow pans in a quick oven.
5
No. 13. POOR MAN'S CAKE
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon soda
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups flour
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 cup butter
1 teaspoon lemon
Mix butter and sugar; stir soda into sour milk and add to butter
and sugar, but do not stir; sift flour, cornstarch and baking powder; add
them and stir thoroughly; add flavoring and bake in three layers;
spread layers with jelly or icing as desired.
No. 14. HARD TIMES CAKE
3/4 cup shortening
4 cups flour
1 cup molasses
1/2 nutmeg grated
i cup sugar
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup strong coffee
1 teaspoon soda
Dissolve soda in coffee and add to the shortening, sugar and mo-
lasses, which have been mixed thoroughly; then add flour into which
you have stirred the spices and raisins or currants; if you choose, about
two cups will be sufficient; mix all well; put in pans lined with greased
paper and bake in a slow oven 1 hour.
No. 15. VELVET LUNCH CAKE
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 cup fresh lard
1/2 teaspoon allspice
4 cups flour
1 teaspoon nutmeg
2 cups sour milk
1 lb. raisins seeded and cut
1 teaspoon baking powder or the same of soda dissolved in a tablespoon
of hot water
Cream sugar and lard; add the sour milk; mix flour and spices
and stir in then the raisins. Bake in loaf pans in a moderate oven.
No. 16. EGGLESS CAKE
1/2 cup butter
3 cups flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 cups milk
1 tablespoon cornstarch
Cream butter and sugar; add milk and stir till sugar is dissolved;
stir in gradually the flour sifted with the baking powder and corn-
starch; mix stiff and bake as a loaf cake or in three layers with any
filling desired.
No. 17. EGGLESS GOLD CAKE
1/2 cup of carrots boiled till ten- 2 cups flour
der and rubbed through a sieve
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/3 cup shortening
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 scant cup milk
1/2 cup raisins seeded and floured
lemon flavor
6
Mix thoroughly the carrots, sugar and shortening; add the milk
and flavor; sift the flour, cream of tartar, soda and salt; stir in well,
and add the raisins. Bake in a loaf pan in a moderate oven.
No. 18. APPLE SAUCE CAKE
1 cup sugar
1 3/4 cups flour
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup apple sauce
1/2 teaspoon cloves
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1 cup currants or raisins
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
Cream sugar and butter; dissolve soda in a tablespoon of hot
water and stir into apple sauce; add to the butter and sugar; then stir
in the flour and spices sifted together and add the raisins. Bake in
a loaf pan 45 minutes; moderate oven.
No. 19. SOUR MILK CAKE
3/4 cup molasses
1 teaspoon cloves
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon baking soda
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup sour milk
1/2 lb. raisins
Cream the butter and sugar; stir in the molasses; dissolve soda in
the sour milk and add; sift the flour, spices and baking powder together
and stir in; then add the raisins; put in loaf pans and bake in a slow
oven 1 hour.
No. 20. PORK CAKE
without eggs, butter or milk
1 lb. salt pork, ground fine
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 pt. dark molasses
1 teaspoon cloves
2 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon nutmeg
1 pint hot black coffee
1 teaspoon ginger
Pour the hot coffee, in which dissolve 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda,
over the salt pork; add the molasses, sugar and flour enough to make
a medium stiff dough; stir in the spices and 1 pound raisins and cur-
rants together, and a cup of chopped nuts and candied cherries if
desired; put into loaf pans and bake in a slow oven 1 hour.
No. 21. CRUMB CAKE
3 cups flour
1 cup sour milk
1 1/2 cups brown sugar
5 teaspoons cocoa or chocolate
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon soda
Put the flour, sugar and cocoa or chocolate into a mixing bowl; stir
all together and then rub the butter in; put soda in sour milk and add
to the mixture; add the salt and beat all together; pour into a greased
pan and bake in a slow oven; ice if desired.
7
No. 22. EGGLESS DROP CAKES
1 cup butter
4 cups flour
2 cups sugar
1 cup chopped raisins
2 cups milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon of vanilla
Cream butter and sugar; add the milk; sift the flour and baking
powder and stir in; then add the flavor and raisins; mix well and drop
in gem pans or little cake tins; bake in hot oven.
No. 23. SPICE CUP CAKES
1 cup dark molasses
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ginger
1 1/2 cups lard
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon of baking powder
1 cup boiling water
Mix the molasses, shortening and sugar together till creamy;
dissolve the soda in the hot water and add; sift the spices, salt and
flour together and stir in well. Drop in muffin tins and bake 20 or 30
minutes.
No. 24. MOLASSES CUP CAKES
3 tablespoons brown sugar
1 tablespoon ginger
5 tablespoons flour
2 tablespoons dark molasses
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder
Mix all dry ingredients together; then add molasses with a little
milk; stir well; drop in greased cup cake pans and bake 20 or 30
minutes.
No. 25. GINGER NUTS
3/4 cup butter and lard
1 oz. ground allspice
3/4 cup brown sugar
1 oz. ground cloves
1 1/2 lbs. flour
1 oz. ground cinnamon
1 oz. ground ginger
Cream shortening and sugar; then work in the spices and flour
and mix to a stiff dough with molasses and let stand 1/2 hour; make into
balls about the size of a walnut, press out flat, put in a greased pan
2 inches apart and bake in a medium oven 10 minutes.
8
COOKIES, MUFFINS, ETC.
No. 1. EGGLESS COOKIES
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon soda
6 cups flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon soda
Put flour in a mixing pan, making a hollow in the center into
which put the sugar, salt and cinnamon; dissolve soda in the sour
cream and add; stir with a spoon till most of the flour is stirred in;
mix in the rest of the flour with the hands; roll in a thin sheet; use
round cutter; hot oven.
No. 2. GINGER SNAPS
1 cup molasses
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon ginger
1/2 cup/hot water
1 teaspoon cloves
Mix sugar, molasses an d butter; dissolve soda in a little hot water
an 1 add; mix the spices with enough flour to make a stiff dough; roll
very thin and cut with a small round cutter and bake in a hot oven.
No. 3. MOLASSES COOKIES
1 cup lard
2 teaspoons soda
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup boiling water
1 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon cloves
4 1/2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ginger
Cream. lard and sugar; add molasses, then soda dissolved in the
boiling water; mix the spices with 4 cups of flour and stir into mix-
tore, using the other 1/2 cup of flour to roll out the dough; roll thin;
cut out with large cutter and bake in a hot oven.
No. 4. GINGER COOK!ES
2 cups molasses
2 teaspoons cream of tar
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup coffee
1 cup lard
1 teaspoon ginger
pinch of salt
Mix sugar with molasses, then add salt, shortening, ginger, coffee
and cream of tartar; add enough flour to roll thin; cut with a cookie
cutter and bake 20 or 30 minutes in a hot oven.
9
No. 5. SOUR CREAM COOKIES
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1 cup sour cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
pinch of salt
Dissolve soda in the sour cream and add to the sugar; put in
vanilla, sait and enough flour to roll thin without sticking; cut with a
cookie cutter and bake 20 or 30 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 6. FRUIT COOKIES
2 cups brown sugar
1 teaspoon soda
1/2 cup butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup lard
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 cup sour milk
1 cup of raisins and nuts or 1
cup, chopped dates and figs
Cream sugar and shortening; add the soda dissolved in the milk;
mix the spices with enough flour to make a medium stiff dough; then
stir in the raisins and nuts; roll out thick, cut out with cookie cutter
and bake in a medium oven.
No. 7. LEMON TEA CAKES
2 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1/2 cup butter
1/2 pint milk
3 pints flour
1 teaspoon soda
1 teaspoon lemon
Cream butter and sugar; add a pinch of salt and the flour into
which has been sifted the cream of tartar; mix this to a dough with the
milk, reserving a little to dissolve the soda, adding this last of all; mix
well and roll out thin; cut into small round cakes and bake in a hot oven.
No. 8. CARAWAY SEED COOKIES
3/4 lb. butter and lard
3 lbs. flour
1 lb. sugar
2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1/2 pt. cold water
1/2 cup caraway seeds
Cream the sugar with the butter and lard, then add the flour into
which has been sifted the cream of tartar; mix to a dough with the
water in which has been dissolved a teaspoon of baking soda; roll out
and cut into oblong cakes, sprinkle with caraway seeds and bake in
a hot oven.
No. 9. CHOCOLATE WAFERS
1/4 cup butter
2 squares grated chocolate
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup milk
1 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
pinch of salt
Cream butter and sugar; add the milk, then flour, salt, chocolate
and flavor; spread on buttered pans, sprinkle with a cup of chopped
nuts and bake in a medium oven.
10
No. 10. LEMON SNAPS
1 heaping cup sugar
2/3 cup butter
5
1/2 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in two of hot water
Work in enough flour to make a very stiff dough; flavor with
lemon; roll out thin; use a small round cutter and bake in a hot oven.
No. 11. CREAM MUFFINS
1 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons butter
3 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 cup cream
Sift dry ingredients together twice, then work in the butter with
the finger tips; add cream and mix well; fill muffin tins half full and
bake 15 or 20 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 12. PLAIN MUFFINS
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons lard
Mix an t sift dry ingredients; add milk and melted shortening and
beat till smooth; bake in greased muffin tins 20 or 25 minutes in a hot
oven.
No. 13. CORNMEAL MUFFINS
3/4 cups cornmeal
2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/4 cups flour
1 cup milk
4 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons lard
Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk and melted short-
ening and beat we!l; bake in greased muffin tins about 20 minutes in a
hot oven.
No. 14. WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM MUFFINS
1 tablespoon sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons shortening
2 cups of whole wheat or graham flour
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add enough milk or water to make
a stiff batter; add melted shortening and bake in greased muffin tins
about 25 or 30 minutes in a hot oven.
No. 15. BRAN MUFFINS
1 cup bran
1 cup milk
1 cup graham flour
3 tablespoons shortening
1 tablespoon brown sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
Mix and sift dry ingredients, then add milk and melted shorten-
ing; beat until thoroughly mixed and bake in greased muffin tins in
a hot oven 25 or 30 minutes.
11
No. 16. CORN BREAD
1 1/2 cups milk
1/4 cup flour
2 tablespoons shortening
4 teaspoons baking powder
1344 cups cornmeal
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Sift dry ingredients into a bowl; add milk and melted shortening;
beat well and put in greased pan or muffin tins and bake in a hot oven
25 minutes.
No. 17. STEAMED CORN BREAD
2 cups cornmeal
1/2 pint sour milk
1 cup flour
1/2 pint sweet milk
1/2 pint of sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
Put the cornmeal, flour, sugar and salt in a bowl; add the sweet
milk, mix thoroughly, then stir in the sour milk in which put the soda;
mix well and divide into buttered baking powder tins and steam 3
hours.
No. 18. GINGERBREAD
1 cup molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
1 cup sour milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 1/2 cups flour
2 teaspoons ginger
1/4 cup melted butter
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
Stir the melted butter into the molasses, then sift together the
flour, spices, baking powder and salt; add the soda to the sour milk
and stir into the molasses and butter, then stir in the flour, etc.; pour
in greased pan and bake 30 or 40 minutes.
No. 19. APPLE GINGER BREAD
1 cup chopped tart apples
1 tablespoon ginger
1 lemon, boiled and chopped
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup drippings
1/2 cup cold water
Mix all together and add of flour enough to make a medium stiff
batter; stir in a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a tablespoon of water,
then stir in a teaspoon of baking powder sifted with a tablespoon of
flour; mix well and bake in a loaf or gem pans; moderate oven.
No. 20. COFFEE CAKE
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons shortening
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup milk
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add the melted shortening and
enough milk to make a very stiff batter; spread 1/2 inch thick in greased
pan and spread thickly with top mixture; bake 1/2 hour.
12
Top Mixture
2 tablespoons flour
4 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
4 tablespoons shortening
Mix dry ingredients; rub in shortening.
No. 21. SPONGE COFFEE CAKE
1 cup light, soft bread sponge or
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup soft yeast
1/2 cup sugar
1 pint sweet milk
3 cups flour
Stir all together and set in a warm place to rise; roll out in sheets
1/2 inch thick and let rise again; when light spread thick cream over
top and sift sugar over it with a little cinnamon added; bake in a
quick oven till a light brown.
No. 22. Doughnuts
1 1/2 pints milk
1/2 pound butter
1 pound sugar
1 nutmeg grated
1/2 cup liquid yeast
Mix all together and let rise over night; in the morning add
enough flour to make a soft dough and let rise again; after rolling out
and cutting, let rise again on cake board a short time before frying in
very hot lard; when done, roll in powdered sugar.
No. 23. LEBKUCHEN, OR GERMAN COFFEE CAKE
1
pound granulated sugar
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup lard
1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved
1 pint milk
in a little vinegar
pinch of salt
Cream sugar and lard; add milk, then baking soda, then cream of
tartar sifted with enough flour to make a soft, sticky batter; set on
ice till very cold; when ready, if too sticky, add a little more flour; cut
into oblong pieces after rolling out about 1 inch thick; put in flat tins
an inch apart and wash with black coffee.
No. 24. TWISTERS
1 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 tablespoons sugar
Dissolve soda in sour milk; add sugar and enough flour to make
a stiff dough; roll 1/2 inch thick and cut into long strips, bring the
two ends of the strip together and twist; drop in a pan of smoking
hot grease; when brown, take out.
No. 25. LEMON TWIST
Take enough bread dough to make a small loaf; work into this
two tablespoons of sugar and 1/2 cup of shortening; roll out 1/2 inch
thick; spread with butter and sprinkle on a little sugar; on sugar drop
carefully a tablespoon of lemon extract; cut into 3 strips and braid
together; let rise; bake in a moderate oven 1/2 hour; very nice cut in
slices and served with coffee.
13
PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS
No. 1. FRUIT PUDDING
1 pint flour
1/4 cup sugar or dark molasses
4 teaspoons baking
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 cup finely chopped suet
1/2 cup each of raisins and cur-
3/4 cup milk if sugar is used
rants
1/2 cup milk if molasses is used
Mix dry ingredients together and add sugar, molasses and milk;
stir well and put in greased moulds; steam 2 1/2 hours if put in large
moulds, or 1 1/2 hours if put in individual moulds.
No. 2. ENGLISH SUET PUDDING
1 cup dark molasses
3 1/2 cups flour
1 short teaspoon soda
1/4 cup chopped suet
1 cup of milk or cider
1 cup chopped raisins
Dissolve soda in molasses; add milk and stir in suet, flour and
raisins; steam 3 hours in a large mould, or 1 1/2 hours in individual
moulds.
No. 3. CALIFORNIA PUDDING
Cream 1 cup of sugar with 1/2 cup butter; add 1/2 cup of dark molasses
into which 1 teaspoon of baking soda has been dissolved; add 1/2 cup
of sour milk, then stir in 2 1/2 cups of flour and then 1 cup chopped
raisins; steam 3 hours and serve with whipped cream.
No. 4. WHITE SUET PUDDING
1 cup finely chopped suet
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 cups flour
1 cup raisins or currants
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups of milk
Sift flour and baking powder and mix with the suet and sugar;
stir the mixture into the milk and add the raisins; steam 2 1/2 hours.
No. 5. BLACK NEW YEAR PUDDING
1 cup dark molasses
1 grated nutmeg
1 cup sour milk
1/8 lb. citron chopped fine
3 cups flour
4 dry figs chopped fine
1/4 lb. suet chopped fine
1 doz. almonds chopped fine
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup seeded raisins
1 1/2 teaspoons soda
3 tart apples, minced
Add the soda to the sour milk and stir into the molasses; mix
well, then stir in the flour, salt and nutmeg and add the fruit; mix all
together and steam in a buttered mould for 3 hours; dry 15 minutes in
oven. Serve with any good pudding sauce.
14
60
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
constantly till perfectly mixed. If the proportion
of flour is greater than that of the butter it will
be better to add a little of the soup to the flour
and butter in a separate saucepan as for making
white sauce, and when enough has been added
to make a smooth sauce, it may be poured into
the soup.
Brown Stock No. I
3 lbs. shin of beef
I sprig sweet marjoram
3 qts. cold water
2 sprigs parsley
1/2 teaspoon peppercorns
1/13 cup carrot
6 cloves
cup turnip
1/2 bay leaf
cup celery
3 sprigs thyme
1/33 cup onion
I tablespoon salt
Prepare the meat as directed for making stock,
brown one-third of it in a frying pan with the
fat. Wash the vegetables, scrape or pare them,
and cut them in small pieces. Put all the ingre-
dients together and bring them to a boil. When
they have boiled for ten minutes put them into
a cooker for from nine to twelve hours. Unless
there is a large quantity of soup it is not safe
to leave it more than twelve hours, lest it
grow cold and sour; but nine or more quarts
may safely be left for fifteen hours or more,
provided the kettle is at least two-thirds full.
Pour it through a wire strainer and cool it as
rapidly as possible.
SOUPS
61
Brown Stock No. 2
lbs. meat and bone, raw
3 sprigs parsley
or cooked
1/4 cup carrot
qts. water
1/2 cup turnip
6 peppercorns
1/10 cup onion
3 cloves
1/2 cup celery
1/2 teaspoon shaved lemon rind I teaspoon salt
Do not use salt or smoked meats for soup
stock, or any parts of meat which have become
charred or blackened in the cooking. Very little
of these would be enough to destroy the good
flavour of soup.
Cut from the bones all the meat that is easy
to get off. Tough ends from steak or roasts
should be cut off before they are cooked, and
saved for soup or stews. Cut meat for making
soup in small pieces. Separate the bones at the
joints and crack them if they are large. Soak the
meat in the water while preparing the seasoning.
Put all the ingredients together and bring them to a
boil. Boil them for ten minutes and put them
into a cooker for from nine to twelve hours,
standing the pan or pail in a large pail of boil-
ing water, unless this recipe fills the cooker pail.
Strain the stock through a wire strainer, and
cool it as rapidly as possible.
White Stock No. I
I chicken or fowl
Water to cover the chicken
Salt (I teaspoon to I qt. water)
62
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Cook chicken or fowl according to the directions
given on page 131 for stewed chicken. The water in
which the chicken was cooked makes white stock.
White Stock No. 2
2 lbs. knuckle of veal
I2 peppercorns
2 qts. cold water
1/2 cup celery or I tea-
I tablespoon salt
spoon celery seed
I onion
Prepare the meat as directed for making
stock. Pare and slice the onion; cut the celery
in pieces. If celery cannot easily be obtained,
substitute dried celery leaves, using three or
four sprays, or use celery seed.
Put all the ingredients together, let them boil
for ten minutes, and put them into a cooker for
from nine to twelve hours. Set the pail or pan
in a larger cooker-pail of boiling water unless
the soup nearly fills the cooker-pail.
Bouillon
3 lbs. lean beef from round or
I tablespoon salt
shoulder
1/2 cup carrot
2 lbs. marrow bone
1/8 cup onion
3 qts. cold water
1/2 cup turnip
I teaspoon peppercorns
1/2 cup celery
Prepare the meat as directed for making
brown stock. Use the marrow fat for browning
the meat. Boil all together for ten minutes
and put them into a cooker for from nine to
SOUPS
63
twelve hours. Strain the stock through a wire
strainer and cool it. When cold, remove the
fat and clear the soup as directed on page 59.
Serve in bouillon cups with crisp crackers.
Serves fifteen to twenty persons.
Beef Broth
I lb. lean beef from round or I pt. cold water
shoulder
1/4 teaspoon salt
Wash and chop the meat fine, removing any
pieces of fat. Add the salt and let the meat
soak for one hour in a cold place. In a small
cooker-pail or pan set over a larger cooker-
pail of hot, but not boiling water, heat the broth
till it registers 165 degrees Fahrenheit. Slip
the pails into a cooker for one-half hour. Strain
the broth through a coarse wire strainer, remove
all fat by the directions on page 59, and serve
it immediately in a heated cup; or it may be
chilled, or frozen to the consistency of mush.
Mutton Broth
3 lbs. mutton (from neck)
Few grains pepper
2 qts. cold water
3 tablespoons rice or
2 teaspoons salt
3 tablespoons barley
Wipe the meat, remove carefully all skin and
fat, as these impart a rank flavour to mutton
broth. Cut the meat into small pieces, or put
it through a food chopper. Cover the meat
and bones with the water, add the salt, and
64
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
when boiling put them into a cooker for from
nine to twelve hours. If barley is used, soak
it over night and cook it in a small pail or pan
set into or ove the broth n the ame cooker-pail.
When broth and barley are bo h boiling, put
the pails together and slip them nto the cooker.
Rice would be over cooked if treated in this
way, and should be cooked in the strained broth,
or separately, for one hour in the cooker. When
the broth is done, strain it and remove every
particle of fat as directed on page 59.
Consommé
3 lbs. lower part of round or 2 tablespoons butter
shoulder of beef
I tablespoon salt
I
lb. marrow bone
I teaspoon peppercorns
3 lbs. knuckle of veal
I teaspoon shaved lemon rind
I qt. chicken stock
3 sprigs thyme
cup carrot
I sprig marjoram
cup turnip
2 sprigs parsley
cup celery
1/6 bay leaf
1/6 cup onion
3 qts. cold water
Prepare the meat as directed for making
brown stock, using the marrow fat to brown half
of the meat. Soak the raw meat and bone in the
cold water while browning the remaining meat
and preparing the vegetables and seasonings.
Prepare the vegetables as directed for making
soup stock, and brown them in the butter. Bring
all to a boil together, reserving the chicken
SOUPS
65
stock. Boil for ten minutes, and put it into the
cooker for from nine to twelve hours. Strain
this stock through a wire strainer, add the chicken
stock, and, if it is not seasoned sufficiently,
add what seasoning it needs. Cool it as rapidly
as possible, and when cold, clear it according
to the directions on page 59.
It is served, usually, with custard cut into
fancy shapes; or with noodles, macaroni, or
other Italian pastes, which are first cooked as
directed on page 143; or with delicate vege-
tables, such as peas or string beans, or other
vegetables cut into fancy shapes; or with cooked
chicken, cut in dice, and green peas. A poached
egg is sometimes served in each plate of soup.
Serves sixteen or twenty persons.
Mock Turtle Soup No. I
I calf's head
teaspoons salt
6 cloves
2 cups brown stock
8 peppercorns
1 4 cup butter
6 allspice berries
1/2 cup flour
2 sprigs thyme
I cup stewed tomatoes, strained
1/ cup sliced onion
Juice 1/2 lemon
1/3 cup carrot cut in dice
Madeira wine
Clean and wash the calf's head, reserving
the tongue and brains to use for some other dish.
Soak it for one hour in enough cold water to
cover it. Boil it in a covered pail for twenty
66
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
minutes with three quarts of salted water and
the vegetables and seasoning, and put it into
the cooker for from nine to twelve hours.
Remove the head; cut off the face meat and
reserve it; boil the stock until it is reduced to
one quart. Strain and remove the fat from
it as directed on page 59; or cool it, and remove
the hard fat. Melt the butter, add the flour
and stir it until it is well browned; then add
the brown stock, one-half at- a time, stirring it
constantly, and allowing the mixture to boil
before adding the second cupful of liquid. To
this add the head stock, tomato, one cupful of
the face meat cut in dice, and the lemon juice.
Simmer for five minutes. Just before serving it
add Madeira wine to taste, more salt and pepper,
if desirable, custard cut in dice, and egg balls
or forcemeat balls. If the soup is prepared,
as it may be, some time before it is to be served,
slip the pail into the cooker until time for serving.
If kept many hours it will need to be reheated.
Mock Turtle Soup
I calf's or lamb's liver
4 cloves
I calf's heart
I teaspoon peppercorns
I knuckle of veal
2 teaspoons salt
Water to cover (about 2 qts.)
I bay leaf
1/6 cup union
4 yolks of hard-cooked eggs
1/6 cup turnip
1/2 lemon
cup celery
Madeira wine
SOUPS
67
Wash the meat, cover it with cold water in a
cooker-pail. Let it stand in a cold place while
the vegetables are being prepared. Wash the
vegetables and cut them in small pieces. Put
them and the seasonings with the meat, bring
all to a boil, and boil it for ten minutes. Put
it into a cooker for nine hours or more. Strain
it, and add to it one cupful of the heart and
liver meat cut into small dice. Pour it into
a tureen in which the lemon and the egg yolks,
cut in quarters, have been placed. Add Madeira
wine to taste. The remaining heart and liver
may be used for stew or hash.
Serves ten or eleven persons.
Vegetable Soup with Stock
2 qts. brown stock
1/2 cup cabbage
1/2 cup turnip
1/° 4 cup onion
1/2 cup carrot
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup celery
2 tablespoons rice or barley
Wash and pare the vegetables. Put all but
the celery through a coarse food chopper. Cut
the celery in fine pieces. Boil all the ingre-
dients together hard for one minute. Put
them into a cooker for three hours or more.
If barley is used, soak it over night in cold
water and boil it till soft; or cook it in the
cooker with boiling salted water for five or
six hours.
68
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Cream of Celery Soup
2 cups white stock
3 tablespoons flour
3 cups celery, cut small
2 cups hot milk
I cup water
I cup hot cream
I small onion, sliced
I teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons butter
1/20 teaspoon pepper
Cook the first four ingredients together in a
cooker for three hours or more. Rub them through
a sieve; bind the soup with the butter and flour,
as directed on page 59, and add the milk, cream,
and seasonings.
Serves six or eight persons.
Asparagus Soup
3 cups white stock, or
1/2 cup butter
3 cups water in which aspara-
cup flour
gus has cooked
2 cups hot milk
I can asparagus, or
teaspoon salt
I pt. cooked asparagus
teaspoon pepper
I slice onion
If canned asparagus is used, drain and rinse it.
Cut off the tips about an inch long, and reserve
them. Put the stalks of asparagus, stock or
asparagus water and onion into a cooker-pail.
When boiling, put them into a cooker for two
and one-half hours or more. Rub through a
sieve, bind it with the butter and flour, as directed
on page 59, and add the remaining ingredients
and the tips.
Serves six or seven persons.
SOUPS
69
Tomato Soup with Stock
I qt. brown stock
4 tablespoons butter
I can or I qt. tomatoes
1/3 cup flour
I onion
teaspoons salt
Cook the first three ingredients for one hour
or more in the cooker. Rub through a strainer,
bind it with the butter and flour, as directed on
page 59, and add the salt. Or bind the soup
before putting it into the cooker, and strain
it just before serving.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Creole Soup
I qt. brown stock
1/3 cup flour
I pt. tomatoes
3 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons chopped green
Few grains of cayenne
sweet peppers
2 tablespoons grated horse-
2 tablespoons chopped onion
radish
1/4 cup butter
I teaspoon vinegar
1/4 cup macaroni rings
Cook the pepper and onion in the butter for
five minutes, add the flour, then the stock and
tomatoes gradually, and cook all in the cooker
for one hour or more. Rub it through a sieve,
and add the remaining ingredients. The maca-
roni rings are made by cutting cooked macaroni
into very short lengths. Do not soak macaroni
for making rings.
Serves six or eight persons.
7°
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Ox Tail Soup
I small ox tail
1/2 cup Madeira wine
1 1/2 qts. brown stock
I teaspoon Worcestershire
1/2 teaspoon salt
sauce
Few grains of cayenne
I teaspoon lemon juice
2 tablespoons butter
Flour
Cut the OX tail into small pieces, wash it,
drain it, and sprinkle it with the salt, pepper,
and flour. Brown it in the butter. Add it to
the stock with the vegetables, which have been
cut small or with French vegetable cutters.
Put it into the cooker for two hours or more.
Add the seasonings and lemon juice.
Serves six or eight persons.
Julienne Soup
I qt. brown stock
2 tablespoons peas
1/4 cup carrot
2 tablespoons string beans
1/4 cup turnip
Clarify the stock and add the cooked beans
and peas and the carrot and turnip, which have
been cut into thin strips one and one-half inches
long and cooked for two hours in the cooker.
When boiling hot, serve it.
Serves four or five persons.
Macaroni Soup
I qt. brown stock
1/4 cup macaroni rings
Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water for
two hours in the cooker. Drain it in a colander.
SOUPS
7I
Cut it into very short lengths to make rings.
Heat them in the stock.
SOUPS MADE WITHOUT STOCK
Vegetable Soup
cup carrot
I pt. tomatoes
1/3
cup turnip
5 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup celery
1/2 tablespoon parsley
1/2 cup onion
2 teaspoons salt
cups potato
1 1 teaspoon pepper
I qt. water
Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrot, pare
the turnip, potatoes, and onions, remove the
leaves and strings from the celery, and cut the
vegetables in small pieces, or put all except
the potatoes and celery through a coarse food
chopper. Measure the vegetables after they
are prepared. Put them all, except the potatoes
and parsley, into a frying pan with the butter,
and cook them for ten minutes; add the potatoes
and cook them for two minutes more, then
put all the ingredients, except the parsley,
together in a cooker-pail, and when they are
boiling put them into a cooker for three hours
or more. Add the parsley just before serving.
"Left-over" vegetables, in pieces, may be added,
in place of an equal measure of any of the first
five given.
Serves six or eight persons.
72
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Bean Soup
I pt. beans
2 tablespoons Chili sauce
2 qts. water or stock
2 tablespoons butter
I onion
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 lb. lean, raw beef, if stock is
2/2 teaspoons salt
not used
1/4 teaspoon pepper
2 stalks celery
Wash and soak the beans over night, cut the
meat small, and pan-broil the pieces in a dry,
hot frying pan till brown. Put all the ingre-
dients except the butter and flour into a cooker-
pail, and when they are boiling put them into
a cooker for from nine to twelve hours. Rub
the soup through a strainer, and bind it.
Serves eight or ten people.
Black Bean Soup
I pt. black beans
teaspoon pepper
2 qts. water
teaspoon mustard
I small onion
Cayenne
2 stalks celery, or
3 tablespoons butter
1 4 teaspoon celery salt
tablespoons flour
2 teaspoons salt
2 hard-cooked eggs
I lemon
Soak the beans over night, drain them and add
the two quarts of water. Cook the onion in one-
half of the butter; add onion and celery to the
beans, and, when boiling, put them into a cooker
for from eight to twelve hours. Rub the soup
through a strainer, add the seasonings, bind it,
SOUPS
73
and when it has boiled for five minutes pour it
over the sliced eggs and lemon in a soup tureen.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Tomato Soup
I can tomatoes, or
I slice onion
I qt. raw tomatoes
2 teaspoons salt
I pt. water
teaspoon soda
I2 peppercorns
2 teaspoons sugar
I small bay leaf
2 tablespoons butter
4 cloves
3 tablespoons flour
Cook the first six ingredients together in a
cooker for one hour or more. Strain, add the
salt and soda, and bind it. If it is not to be served
at once it may stand in the cooker, to keep hot,
for an indefinite period.
Serves six or seven persons.
Purée of Lima Beans
I cup dried lima beans
I cup cream or milk
3 pts. water
4 tablespoons butter
2 slices onion
2 tablespoons flour
2 slices turnip
2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
Wash the beans and soak them over night.
Drain them, and, when boiling, cook them with the
prepared onion and turnip and the water in a
cooker for four hours or more. Rub this through
a strainer, add the seasoning and cream or milk,
and bind it.
Serves seven or nine persons.
74
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Baked Bean Soup
3 cups cold baked beans
2 tablespoons butter
3 pints water
2 tablespoons flour
2 slices onion
I tablespoon Chili sauce
2 stalks celery
I teaspoon salt
1/2 cups tomato
1/20 teaspoon pepper
Cook the first five ingredients in a cooker for
three hours or more, rub them through a strainer,
bind this with the butter and flour, as directed on
page 59, and add the seasonings.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Green Pea Soup
I can marrowfat peas, or
I slice onion
I pt. shelled peas
2 tablespoons butter
2 teaspoons sugar
2 tablespoons flour
I pt. water
teaspoon salt
I pt. milk
1/6 teaspoon pepper
If fresh peas are used take those which are too
old to be good to serve as a vegetable. If canned
peas are used, drain and rinse them, add the sugar,
water, and onion, and, when boiling, put them
into a cooker for two hours or more. Rub them
through a strainer, add the hot milk and seasoning
and bind the soup with the butter and flour, as
directed on page 59.
Bean and pea soups are very nourishing and
should not be followed by a rich, hearty meal.
Serves five or six persons.
SOUPS
75
Potato Soup
3 potatoes
2 tablespoons flour
I pt. milk
1 teaspoons salt
I pt. water
teaspoon celery salt
2 slices onion
1/20 teaspoon pepper
4 tablespoons butter
Cayenne
I teaspoon chopped parsley
Scrub and pare the potatoes and cut them into
small pieces. Cook them in a cooker with the
water and onion for one and one-half hours or
more, standing the pail or pan in a larger cooker-
pail of boiling water. Rub the soup through a
sieve, bind it, and add the seasoning.
Serves five or six persons.
Fish Chowder
4
lbs. cod, haddock, or other inch cube fat salt pork
firm white fish
I tablespoon salt
4 cups potatoes (in 3 inch dice) 1/20 teaspoon pepper
I onion, sliced
3 tablespoons butter
4 cups scalded milk
2000 cup oyster crackers
Skin the fish (see page 82), cut the flesh into
two-inch pieces, put the head, tail, and bones into
a small cooker-pail or pan, add two cups of cold
water and bring it to a boil. Set this into a
larger cooker-pail of boiling water to which
one teaspoonful of salt has been added for each
quart of water. Put the potatoes in this lower
pail and, when boiling, cook all in the cooker
for one hour.
FISH
85
until it thickens like custard. Serve at once or
it will curdle.
Serves six or eight persons.
Codfish Balls
I cup raw salt codfish, in
3 qts. cold water
small pieces
I egg
I heaping pint potatoes in
1/2 tablespoon butter
I-inch pieces
1/20 teaspoon pepper
Bring the fish and potatoes to a boil in the
water. Put them into a hay-box for one and
one-half hours. Drain and shake them, un-
covered, over the fire to dry them as boiled
potatoes, till white and mealy. Mash them
thoroughly, add the other ingredients, and mix
them together thoroughly. If necessary, add
a little more salt. Take the mixture up by
tablespoonfuls and, without moulding them,
drop them into hot, deep fat. Fry until they
are a rich brown, and drain them on brown
paper.
To test the temperature of fat for fish balls,
drop a cube of stale bread into the fat. If it
grows a rich brown in forty seconds the fat is
of the right temperature. If fat is too hot,
fried food is injured in flavour and digestibility;
if not hot enough the food will be greasy. If
fish balls fall apart in the frying, it is because
86
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
the fish and potatoes were not well dried before
adding the other ingredients.
Serves four or six persons.
Salt Fish Soufflé
I cup salt codfish
tablespoons butter
I heaping pt. potatoes
7/60 cup milk
3 qts. water
1/20 teaspoon pepper
2 eggs
Cook the fish and potatoes as for codfish balls.
When drained and dried, add the butter, milk,
pepper, and yolks of eggs; then the whites, beaten
stiff. Turn into a buttered baking-dish, and
bake until puffed and brown (about one-half
hour) in an insulated oven, the stones heated
until the paper test shows a golden brown.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Salmon Loaf
I can salmon
1/20 teaspoon pepper
1++ cup butter (melted)
I teaspoons salt
I cup soft breadcrumbs
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
4 eggs
I small bay leaf
If only hard, dry crumbs can be obtained, add
one-fourth of a cup of water to the recipe, mix-
ing it with the eggs, and soaking the crumbs
one-half hour in the mixture.
Rub the fish and butter together, add the
other ingredients, and put all into a buttered
one-quart bread-mould or water-tight empty
FISH
87.
coffee or baking-powder can. Set the mould
in enough cold water to reach two-thirds of the
way up its sides. Let this come to a boil, boil
fifteen minutes and put into the cooker for one
hour. It will not be injured by remaining in
the hay-box two hours. Or set the mould
into boiling water, boil one-half hour, and put
into the cooker for an hour.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Casserole of Fish
I cup cold flaked fish
I cup mashed potatoes
I teaspoon salt
2 hard-cooked eggs
teaspoon pepper
Butter a quart mould, put into it alternate
layers of fish, potatoes, and egg; seasoning each
layer. Stand the mould in a cooker-pail of
boiling water to reach two-thirds of the way up
its sides. Boil ten minutes and put it into the
cooker for from three-quarters of an hour to two
hours.
Serves six persons.
Cape Cod Turkey
I lb. salt codfish
4 qts. cold water
1/4 1b. fat salt pork
Wash the fish and put it on the stove in the
water. When boiling, put it into a cooker and
let it cook from one and one-half to three hours.
While this is cooking cut the pork into one-fourth
88
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
inch slices, gash the slices occasionally, nearly
to the rind. Pour boiling water over it, drain it,
and try it out in a frying-pan till brown and
crisp. When the codfish is done, drain it and
garnish it with a border of the hot, crisp pork.
Serve drawn-butter sauce and boiled potatoes
with it.
Serves six or eight persons.
Creamed Oysters
I qt. oysters
1/4 cup flour
2 cups milk or cream
$14 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup butter
Few grains of white pepper
Drain and wash the oysters. Strain the liquor
through cheese-cloth. Heat the oysters in the
liquor by themselves and scald the milk. Rub the
butter and flour together, add them to the hot
milk or cream, and let it boil. Put this mixture
with the boiling oysters and set it in a cooker
for one-half hour or more. Just before serv-
ing add the seasoning. Serve it on toast or crisped
crackers, or in croustades.
94
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
the piece and the degree of cooking desired.
A five-pound roast may be cooked four hours,
and if not found done to taste, it can be reheated
to boiling point and cooked longer. A larger
roast will require more time in the cooker. If
preferred, the meat may first be partially cooked
in the hay-box and browned in the oven after-
ward. It must then be boiled for half an hour,
cooked three or more hours in the cooker, and
then roasted. Lay a piece of raw fat on top
of the roast, or baste it with drippings to assist
in the browning.
Pot Roast
3 lbs. beef rump
2 small carrots
3 cups boiling water
2 sprigs parsley
I bay leaf
1 teaspoon celery seed, or
I small onion
1/2 cup celery, cut in pieces
Salt and pepper
Flour
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
Have the butcher bone and roll the meat,
dredge it well with salt, pepper, and flour, and
brown it on all sides in a frying-pan with a little
of the fat from the meat, or one or two tablespoons
of beef drippings or pork fat. Put all the ingre-
dients together in a small cooker-pail, - let it
simmer thirty minutes, set it into a larger pail
of boiling water and put into a cooker for nine
hours or more. Reheat it to boiling point;
strain and thicken the liquor for gravy. Round
BEEF
95
of beef may be used for pot roast, but it is drier
than the rump, which has some fat on it. Four
or five pounds of rump will make three pounds
when boned. Have the bone sent from the
market to use for soup stock.
Serves ten or twelve persons.
Beef
a la Mode
3 lbs. beef from the round
I onion
I oz. fat, salt pork
-180
teaspoon allspice
2 teaspoons salt
1/20
teaspoon nutmeg
1 It teaspoon pepper
6 cloves
Flour
2 tablespoons rendered beef fat
Water to nearly cover it
Wash the meat, lard it with the pork cut into
strips, or gash it deeply and insert the pork in
the gashes. Dredge it with the salt, pepper, and
flour, and fry it in the beef fat till well browned
on all sides. Put the meat and other ingredients
into a two or three quart cooker-pail or pan,
and nearly cover the meat with boiling water.
Let it simmer for half an hour, then stand the
pail in a larger cooker-pail of boiling water and
put it into a cooker for from nine to twelve hours.
Unless several times this recipe is cooked at
once, do not allow the meat to cook more than
twelve hours, or it may ferment. Reheat it
before serving. Strain and thicken the gravy.
Serves ten or twelve persons.
96
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Corned Beef
Order eight or ten pounds of rump of beef
corned for four days. Put it into a large cooker-
pail and fill the pail with cold water. When
it boils, allow it to simmer for thirty or forty
minutes, then put it into a hay-box for ten or
twelve hours. Reheat it before serving it. If
ordinary corned beef is used it will be more delicate
if, when it is allowed to come to a boil, the water
is changed and fresh boiling water added. It
may then be cooked as directed above for that
specially corned.
Serves twenty or twenty-five persons.
Boiled Dinner
2 lbs. lean, salt pork
I head cabbage
3 turnips
I2 potatoes
4 beets
teaspoon pepper
2 carrots
Water to cover
Wash the pork and gash it in slices; wash
and pare the vegetables. If preferred, the beets
may be cooked separately, without paring them.
Put all, except the potatoes, into the cooker-
pail and cover them with boiling water. When
boiling let them cook ten minutes on the stove,
then put the pail into the cooker for six
hours or more. Add the potatoes, reheat it
to boiling point, and replace it in the cooker
for two hours. If more salt or pepper is
BEEF
97
required add it when the potatoes are put in.
In order to save time the potatoes may be
cooked separately, drained and added to the
dinner before bringing it to a boil for serving.
Corned beef may be used in place of pork, if
preferred.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Beef Stew a la Mode
lbs. beef brisket
6 cloves
Flour
2 teaspoons salt
4 tablespoons rendered fat 2 slices lemon
I onion
1 teaspoon ground allspice
M/DO teaspoon pepper
teaspoon nutmeg
Water to cover (about I pt.)
Buy two and one-half or three pounds of
brisket to get one and one-half pounds of clear,
lean meat. Cut the meat into one inch pieces,
roll them in flour, and fry them in the fat till
brown. The onion may be sliced and added
when the meat is nearly brown. Put the meat
with the other ingredients into a small cooker-
pail, cover it with hot water, boil for ten minutes,
and cook it in a hay-box for five hours or more.
If left for many hours the meat becomes a trifle
dry, but otherwise the stew is not injured by
overcooking. The gravy may be thickened, if
desired, with flour and water mixed together
in equal parts. The bones may be put in
98
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
with the stew during the cooking and removed
before serving, or they may be used to make
soup stock.
Serves five or six persons.
Stuffed Rolled Steak
I flank steak
1/20 teaspoon pepper
I cup soft breadcrumbs
2 tablespoons butter
I teaspoon salt
teaspoon thyme or summer
savoury
I tablespoon chopped parsley
Wash the steak and remove the membrane
that covers it, unless that has been done at the
market. Make a stuffing of the crumbs, melt-
ing the butter and adding the crumbs and other
ingredients to it. If the steak is large enough,
use more stuffing than one cupful. Spread
the stuffing over the meat to within two inches
of the edge. Roll and skewer or tie it into shape.
Brown it well on all sides in a dry frying-pan,
or dredge it with flour and fry it in rendered beef
fat. Lay it in a small cooker-pail or pan. Make
two cupfuls of Brown Sauce, or enough to cover
the roll. Boil the roll for two minutes and
set the pail in a larger pail of boiling water.
Put it for five or six hours into a cooker.
When it is to be served, remove the string or
skewers, lay the roll on a platter, and pour the
gravy over it.
BEEF
99
Round steak, cut about one-half inch thick,
may be used. Remove the bone before rolling it.
Beef Stew with Dumplings
2 cups cooked or raw beef
I teaspoon salt
2 cups raw or cooked potatoes
teaspoon pepper
cup tomato
cup flour
I onion, cut in slices
I
tablespoon chopped parsley
4 tablespoons rendered fat or
I
1/2 cups water, or more
butter
If cooked meat and potatoes are used, cut
them in three-quarter-inch dice, make a brown
sauce of the fat, flour, seasoning, and water,
add the vegetables and meat and enough water to
just cover the stew. Place the dumplings on
top, boil it for five minutes, and cook in a hay-
box for one and one-quarter hours. If the
meat is tough it will be better to treat it like
raw beef. If raw beef is used, cut it in pieces,
bring it to a boil with the water, and put it into
the cooker for three or four hours before adding
the other ingredients.
Dumplings for Stew
2 cups flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons lard or butter
teaspoon salt
3/2 to I cup water
Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder together,
work the fat into them with the fingers, or cut
it in with a knife. Add enough water to make a
IOO
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
stiff dough. Drop it by tablespoonfuls on the
top of the stew. The dumplings should rest on
the meat and vegetables, as they will not be so
light if submerged in the gravy.
Serves six or seven persons.
Irish Stew
3 cups meat
1/2 cup celery
2 cups potatoes
2 teaspoons salt
1/2 cup turnip
1 1/4 teaspoon pepper
1
2 cup carrot
1/8 cup flour
1/63 cup onion
4 tablespoons rendered fat
3 cups water
Wash and cut about two pounds of beef, from
the leg, brisket or other cheap cuts, into one-inch
pieces. Remove most of the fat, or all of it, if
desired. Wash and pare the turnip and carrot
and cut them into small pieces. Pare the potatoes
and cut them into one-inch cubes. Slice the onion
and cut the celery into small pieces. Roll the
meat in the flour and fry it till it is brown in the
fat. Put all the ingredients, except the remaining
flour, into a cooker-pail and, when boiling, put
them into a cooker for five hours. Mix the remain-
ing flour with an equal quantity of cold water.
Stir it into the stew, and when it has boiled it is
ready to serve. It will not be harmed by being
kept hot in the cooker for another hour or more.
Serves eight or ten persons.
BEE F
IOI
Cannelon of Beef
I lb. lean beef, chopped
2 tablespoons butter or
Grated rind 1/2 lemon
rendered fat beef
I tablespoon chopped parsley
teaspoon nutmeg
I cup soft breadcrumbs
tablespoon salt
I teaspoon scraped onion
teaspoon pepper
2 eggs
Mix in the order given, add the eggs, which
have been slightly beaten, put it into a well-
greased one-quart brown bread mould or water-
tight can. Stand the mould in a large pail of
water, arranged on a rack, if necessary to raise the
top of the mould to the level of the top of the pail.
Fill the pail with boiling water, to within one-
third of the top of the mould. Boil it for one-half
hour and put it into a cooker for four hours. If
several times this recipe is used, and put into
larger moulds, it should be boiled a longer time.
It is good served hot, with brown sauce, or cold.
Serves six or eight persons.
Meat Pie
2 cups cooked or raw meat
2 onions
2 cups potatoes
I teaspoon salt
I cup tomatoes
1 4 teaspoon pepper
2. sprigs parsley, chopped
1/2 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon celery salt
I bay leaf, broken fine
Water (about I pt.)
If cooked meat is used, cut it into three-quarter-
inch cubes. Cut the potatoes into similar pieces,
LAMB AND MUTTON
109
Mutton Stew
2 cups meat
I teaspoon salt
2018 cup tomato
1/10 teaspoon pepper
I onion
cups water, or more
I
tablespoon chopped parsley 1/2 cup butter, lard or beeffat
2 cups potatoes
cup flour
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
three-quarter-inch cubes, put it into a cooker-pail
with all the other ingredients, except the fat
and flour. The potatoes should be pared and
cut into one and one-half-inch cubes. Bring
all to a boil, boil it for five minutes and put it
into a cooker for from four to six hours. Make
a brown sauce, using the fat, flour, and liquor
from the stew. Heat the stew in this till boiling.
Or the meat may be dredged with the flour and
fried in the fat until meat and flour are brown,
before being put into the cooker. If cooked
meat is used, one and one-half hours in the cooker
will be enough, unless the meat is very tough,
in which case it may be cooked as long as raw
meat. The addition of one green pepper makes
a good variation of this stew.
Serves five or six persons.
Chestnut Stew
2 cups raw mutton
3 cups blanched nuts
2 onions
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/° teaspoon pepper
3 tablespoons flour
Water
IIO THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
three-quarter-inch cubes; peel and slice the
onions. Dredge the meat with the flour, brown
it and the onions in a frying-pan with any fat
suitable for cooking. Put all the ingredients
into a cooker-pail, barely cover them with boil-
ing water, and let the stew boil five minutes
before putting it into a cooker for four hours
or more.
Serves six or eight persons.
Syrian Stew (Yakhni)
2 cups raw mutton
2 onions
2 tablespoons fat
2 cups tomatoes
3 tablespoons flour
teaspoons salt
2 cups string beans
1/6 teaspoon pepper
Water
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
cubes, dredge it with the flour, and brown it in
the fat. Put all the ingredients together, scrap-
ing from the frying-pan all of the flour and fat.
Add enough water to barely cover them, let them
boil for five minutes, and put them into the
cooker for six hours or more, depending upon
the beans. If they are old and tough they may
require more than six hours to cook.
In Syria this stew is always served with boiled
or steamed rice.
Serves six or eight persons.
LAMB AND MUTTON
III
Okra Stew
2 cups raw mutton
2 cups tomatoes
2 tablespoons fat
2 cups okra
1/20 cup flour
1/2 teaspoons salt
2 onions
1/6 teaspoon pepper
Water
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into
cubes. Wash and cut the okra in pieces, dredge
it and the meat with the flour and fry them,
till brown, in the fat. Put all the ingredients
into a cooker-pail, add enough water to barely
cover them, boil them for five minutes, and
put them into a cooker for four hours, or more.
Serves six or eight persons.
Syrian Stuffed Cabbage
I cup raw chopped meat
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons fat
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/63 cup raw rice
I head cabbage
lemon
Strip off the leaves from a head of cabbage,
throw them into boiling water, and let them
stand till they are wilted. Mix the remaining
ingredients, except the lemon, using for the meat
either mutton or beef. Lay a cabbage leaf
on a plate, remove the thickest part of the mid-
rib, so that it will roll. Spread on it a rounded
teaspoonful of the mixture and roll it like a
cigarette. Do the same with the other leaves,
packing each one, as it is finished, into a pan
II2
THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
which will fit over a cooker-pail, unless a pail is
used which will be nearly filled by the cabbage.
The rolls must be carefully packed or they will
float and unroll when the water is added. Cover
them with boiling water, bring all to a boil, and
boil it for five minutes, then put it directly into
a cooker, if the pail is full, or over boiling water
if not, and leave it for from four to six hours.
Take the rolls out carefully with a cake turner
or skimmer, lay them in a platter, and squeeze
the juice of half a lemon over them. They
are usually served as the meat dish for luncheon.
Serves six or eight persons.
Casserole of Rice and Meat
4 cups cooked rice (I cup raw) I teaspoon grated onion
2 cups cooked mutton
I tablespoon chopped parsley
I teaspoon salt
1/ 4 cup breadcrumbs
1/4 1 teaspoon pepper
I egg
Stock or water
Line a greased mould of one and one-half
quarts' capacity with three cups of the rice.
Remove all the fat from the meat, chop it fine,
and mix it with the other ingredients, adding
enough stock or water to barely keep it from
crumbling. Pack the meat into the mould and
cover it with the remaining cupful of rice.
Grease the cover and put it on. Stand the
mould in a large cooker-pail of water to two-thirds
LAMB AND MUTTON
I 13
of its depth, or, if it is shallow, prop it on a rack,
so that the water will reach half its depth;
boil it for fifteen minutes, and cook it for one
hour or more in the cooker. Turn it out care-
fully on to a hot platter, and pour tomato sauce
around, but not over it.
Serves six or eight persons.
Ragout of Cold Mutton
2 cups cold mutton
1/2 can peas
I onion, sliced
I teaspoon salt
I cup mutton stock
1 4 teaspoon pepper
2 tablespoons butter
I head of lettuce
Farina balls
Cut the mutton into one-inch cubes. Put
all the ingredients except the lettuce and farina
balls into a cooker-pail together, cover it closely,
and when boiling put it into a cooker for one
hour. Serve it on a platter garnished with
lettuce leaves and farina balls.
Serves four to six persons.
VEGETABLES
143
Macaroni
1/6 lb. macaroni (I cup broken I qt. water
in pieces)
I teaspoon salt
Break the macaroni into one-inch pieces.
Soak it in cold water for one hour, then drain it;
or cook it without soaking. Drop it into the
boiling water, let it boil, and put it into the hay-
box for one and one-half hours if soaked, or two
hours if not soaked. Stand the pail or pan in a
cooker-pail of boiling water while in the hay-box.
Macaroni will break to pieces if cooked too long.
When tender, drain it in a colander and serve it
plain, seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, or
make it into Macaroni and Cheese or Macaroni
and Ham.
Serves five or six persons.
Macaroni Italienne
I cup macaroni in one-inch 4 cloves
pieces
I small bay leaf
I pt. stewed and strained
I teaspoon salt
tomatoes
2 teaspoons sugar
I cup stock or water
1 100 teaspoon pepper
I medium-sized onion
I cup cheese, grated or shaved
Soak the macaroni in cold water for one hour;
stick the cloves into the onion. Drain the mac-
aroni, put it into a pan or pail, add the other
ingredients, except the cheese, and, when boiling,
set the pan or pail into a cooker-pail of boiling
water and put it into a cooker for two hours.
144 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Remove the onion and bay leaf and add the
cheese. If it cannot be served as soon as the
cheese is melted, slip the pail back into the
cooker.
Serves five or six persons.
Macaroni Milanaise
I cup macaroni
I cup water
I small onion
I tablespoon butter
2 cloves
1/2 cup grated cheese
I pt. tomatoes, stewed and 6 sliced mushrooms
strained
1/4 cup smoked tongue or ham,
cut in strips
Break the macaroni, soak it for one hour, then
drain it, and put it, with the other ingredients,
except the last three, into a pan or pail. When
boiling, set the pan into a cooker-pail of boiling
water and put it into a cooker for two hours.
Remove the onion and cloves, add the last three
ingredients, and when the cheese is melted it is
ready to serve. If it cannot be served at once
replace it in the cooker.
Serves six or seven persons.
Spaghetti
Spaghetti may be treated in the same way
as macaroni.
It is a similar paste moulded
into a different form. Vermicelli is also the
same paste, moulded into still finer threads. It
is frequently used in soups, and should be broken
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
155
the same fat as that used in the dough or with
butter. If a bread mould is not available, an
empty baking-powder can, coffee can, or any
tin can or box with straight sides which has a
tight-fitting cover may be used, providing it is
found by trial to be water-tight. If it leaks,
it may be soldered at small expense, and may
then be kept for cooking purposes only. Where
a tightly covered can or box cannot be pro-
cured, an uncovered utensil could be used by tying
on securely a cover of heavy, well-greased paper.
Boston Brown Bread
I cup rye meal
tablespoon soda
I cup graham flour
3/2 cup molasses
I cup corn-meal
2 cups sour milk or
I teaspoon salt
cups sweet milk or
buttermilk
Mix and sift the dry ingredients together. Mix
the liquid ingredients and add them, gradually,
to the dry mixture. Put the dough into a well-
buttered, one-quart brown bread mould or water-
tight can of the same capacity. Stand the
mould in a six-quart cooker-pail in enough warm
water to come two-thirds of the way up the mould.
Bring it quickly to a boil and boil it half an hour.
Put it into a hay-box for five hours. It will not
be spoiled by six hours in the cooker, but will not
have quite such a dry crust. If sweet milk is
156 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
used add one tablespoonful of cream of tartar;
or omit the soda and use, instead, two table-
spoonfuls of baking powder.
Serves six or eight persons.
Graham Pudding
1/4 cup butter
I2 cups graham flour
1/2 cup molasses
1/ teaspoon baking-powder
1/2 cup sweet milk
teaspoon soda
I egg
I teaspoon salt
I cup raisins, seeded and cut in pieces
Melt the butter, add the egg, well beaten,
molasses and milk. Mix the dry ingredients and
add to them the liquid mixture. Pour it into a
well-buttered, one-quart mould or into several
smaller moulds. Do not fill them more than two-
thirds full. Place the moulds on a rack in a
six-quart cooker-pail of warm water, bring quickly
to a boil and boil thirty minutes if the larger
cans are used; fifteen minutes, if the small cans
are used. Put it into the cooker for five hours.
If sour milk is available, omit the baking
powder and add an extra one-fourth teaspoonful
of soda.
Serves six persons.
Steamed Apple or Berry Pudding
I cup flour
I tablespoon butter
2 teaspoons baking powder
cup milk (sweet)
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 apples cut in eighths
2 tablespoons sugar
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
157
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, cut the butter
into them, or rub it in with the fingers, add the
milk, cutting it in, lightly, with a knife. When
the dough is barely mixed, so that no loose flour
is left, toss it on a floured board and pat or roll
it lightly till one-half inch thick. Spread the
apples on it and roll it like a jelly roll. Carefully
place it in a well-buttered, one-quart bread
mould or water-tight can. Cover it tightly and
stand it in at least a six-quart cooker-pail with
enough warm water to come two-thirds of the way
up its sides. Bring it quickly to a boil, boil thirty
minutes and place it in a cooker for three hours.
Serve immediately with warm apple sauce and
Hard Sauce. If berries are used add one cupful
to the dough, use one cupful of milk and omit the
apple-sauce.
Serves five or S1X persons.
Suet Pudding
cup chopped suet
teaspoon salt
1/2 cup molasses
teaspoon ginger
1/2 cup sour milk
14 teaspoon grated nutmeg
I cups flour
teaspoon ground cloves
state teaspoon soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add the
suet. Mix the milk and molasses and add them
to the dry mixture. Put the dough into a buttered,
one-quart bread mould or water-tight covered
158 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
can, and stand it in a six-quart cooker-pail of
warm water which reaches two-thirds of the way
up the can. Boil it one-half hour and put into
the cooker for five hours.
Serves six or eight persons.
Rich Plum Pudding
1/2 lb. raisins
3/4 cup fiour
1/2 lb. currants
1 lb. brown sugar
2 oz. candied orange peel
nutmeg, grated
2 oz. citron
tablespoon powdered cinnamon
1 4 lb. chopped suet
teaspoon ground allspice
A 1 lb. stale, soft breadcrumbs
1/4
pint brandy
cups)
4 eggs
Wash and seed the raisins; rub the currants
with a little flour, then sift out the flour and allow
water to run over the currants in the sieve until
they are clean. Spread them on a towel and
remove any stems, stones, etc., that may be
among them. Let them stand, covered with a
towel to keep out dust, until they are dry. Cut
the orange peel and citron very fine, or put them
through a food-chopper. Chop the suet or put
it and the raisins through a coarse food-chopper;
a trifle of the flour may be mixed with the suet
before it is chopped to help to keep it from
sticking to the chopping-knife. Beat the eggs till
blended. Mix all the dry ingredients very thorough-
ly, add the eggs and then the brandy. Put the
pudding into a covered, greased mould, chopping
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
159
down through it a few times with the end of a
knife, to be sure that it fills the mould without
hollow spaces, and to avoid packing it firmly.
Stand it in at least three quarts of warm water,
in a cooker-pail. Heat it slowly but steadily
till the water boils; let it boil one hour if the
pudding is in one mould, or one-half hour if it is
in two smaller moulds. Put it into the cooker
for five hours. Remove it at once from the
mould. If it is not to be used when first made,
it may be kept several weeks, replaced in the
mould and reheated before serving, by putting
it in warm water, heating it to the boiling point
and boiling it one-half hour or more. Serve it
with brandy sauce.
Serves ten or twelve persons.
Steamed Cranberry Pudding
1/8 cup butter
23 cups flour
Con cup sugar
I tablespoon baking powder
2 eggs
1/18 cup milk
I cup berries
Rub the butter till it is soft and add the sugar
gradually. Separate the eggs and add the beaten
yolks to the butter and sugar. Mix and sift the
baking powder and flour together and add a
little flour, alternately with a part of the milk,
to the dough. When all is in, add the stiffly
beaten whites and the berries. Put the mixture
I60 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
into a buttered, one-quart mould, stand it in hot
water and bring it, gradually, but steadily, to a
boil. Let it boil one-half hour and put it into
a cooker for five hours. Serve it with sweetened
cream or hard sauce.
Serves six or eight persons.
Ginger Pudding
cup butter
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup sugar
1/ 4 teaspoon salt
I egg
2 teaspoons ginger
22 cups flour
I cup milk
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually,
and the well-beaten egg. Mix and sift the dry
ingredients and add a little of the mixture alter-
nately with part of the milk. When all is in,
put the dough into a buttered mould, cover it,
and boil it one-half hour in a large cooker-pail of
water, then put it into a cooker for five hours.
Serve it with Vanilla Sauce or Nutmeg Sauce.
Serves six or eight persons.
St. James Pudding
3 tablespoons butter
teaspoon salt
1/2 cup molasses
teaspoon cloves
cup thick, sour milk
1 teaspoon allspice
is cups flour
teaspoon nutmeg
sp, teaspoon soda
lb. dates, stoned and
cut in pieces
Mix the molasses, melted butter, and milk and
add them to the dry ingredients, which have
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
161
been mixed and sifted. Add the dates and turn
the dough into a buttered, one-quart mould.
Boil it in a large cooker-pail of water for one-
half hour and put it into a cooker for five hours.
Serve with Hard Sauce.
Serves five or six persons.
Harvard Pudding
1/63 cup butter
32 teaspoons baking powder
cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
I egg
22 cups flour
I cup milk
Mix the butter and sugar, add the egg, then
the dry ingredients, previously mixed and sifted
together, alternating part of the dry ingredients
and the milk until all are in. Turn it into a
buttered, one-quart mould, boil in a large cooker
pail of water for one-half hour and put it into a
cooker for five hours. Serve it with warm apple
sauce and Hard Sauce.
Serves six or eight persons.
Swiss Pudding
cup butter
Grated rind of one lemon
7/60 cup flour
5 eggs
2 cups milk
1/63 cup powdered sugar
Cream the butter, add the flour, gradually;
scald the milk with the lemon rind, add it to the
first mixture and cook it five minutes over hot
water. Beat the yolks of eggs until they are
162 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
thick, add the sugar, gradually, and combine these
with the cooked mixture; cool it and cut and fold in
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn it into a
buttered, one-quart mould, boil it in a large cooker-
pail of water for twenty minutes, then put it into
a cooker for three hours.
Serves six or seven persons.
Rice Pudding
I qt. milk
teaspoon grated nutmeg
I tablespoon butter
teaspoon salt
1/63 cup rice
1/2 cup sugar
Heat the milk and other ingredients in a
pudding pan over a cooker-pail of water. When
the water boils, remove the pan and bring the
pudding also to a boil. When it is boiling replace
the pudding in the large pail of boiling water,
cover and put it into the cooker for three or
four hours. It may then be put into the oven
for fifteen minutes and browned, although this
is not necessary. This pudding may be cooked
all night, but if cooked more than four hours
it is not quite so creamy. Serve either hot or
cold. One-half cupful of small, unbroken seed-
less raisins may be added to this recipe.
Serves six or eight persons.
Indian Pudding
2 cups water
2 teaspoons ginger
I cup molasses
2/10 cup corn-meal
I teaspoon salt
3 cups milk
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
163
Boil the water, molasses, salt, ginger, and meal
together for ten minutes in a pail or pudding
pan. Add the scalding milk. Bring it to a
boil and set the pan in a cooker-pail of boiling
water. Put it into a cooker for twelve hours.
When done, brown in a hot oven. Serve with
plain or whipped cream.
If fresh ground or coarse Southern corn-meal
is used it may first be sifted with a coarse sieve
to remove the largest particles, which will not
grow soft with this amount of cooking. Granu-
lated corn-meal will not require sifting.
Serves eight or ten persons.
Tapioca or Rice Custard
1/6 cup pearl tapioca
2 eggs
splet cup water
I tablespoon butter
3 cups milk
cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
teaspoon vanilla
Soak the tapioca in the water for one hour.
Add the milk, sugar, butter, and salt. Set the
pan in a cooker-pail of boiling water. When
the milk is scalding remove the pan and let
the pudding come to a boil. Replace it in the
boiling water and put it into the cooker for one
and one-half hours. Take it from the cooker,
add the beaten eggs, replace it in the pail of hot
water and stir it over the fire till it registers
165 degrees Fahrenheit, using a dairy or chemist's
164 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
thermometer. Put it again into the cooker
for one hour. When cold, add the vanilla.
Rice may be used instead of tapioca.
Serves six or eight persons.
Tapioca Fruit Pudding
1/2 cup pearl tapioca
splet cup sugar
I qt. water
1/20 teaspoon salt
6 whole medium-sized apples 2 tablespoons butter
Soak the tapioca one hour, bring it to a boil
with the other ingredients in a two-quart pail,
if that will fill the cooker "nest," or in a pud-
ding pan to be set over boiling water. Put it
into a cooker for one hour. Serve cold with
cream. If it is preferred to serve the pudding
warm, use only three cups of water.
Serves s1X or eight persons.
Chocolate Bread Pudding
I qt. milk
2 or 3 eggs 86
I pt. soft breadcrumbs
1 1 teaspoon salt
2 oz. or squares chocolate
I teaspoon vanilla
2018 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
Scald the milk, add the crumbs, and soak
them for one-half hour. Separate the eggs,
reserving two of the whites for a meringue.
Beat the three yolks and one white of egg together
and mix them with half the granulated sugar.
Melt the chocolate in a pudding pan set in a
cooker-pail of boiling water, add the remaining
BREADS AND PUDDINGS
165
half of the granulated sugar, and, gradually,
the bread and milk, stirring it in well while
still over the boiling water. Then add the yolks
of eggs, salt, and vanilla. Stir it constantly,
and cook it over the water until the pudding is
I60 degrees Fahrenheit. Set the pail contain-
ing the pudding pan in a cooker for from one to
two hours. When done, put it into a baking-
dish suitable for serving, and cover the top with
a meringue made by beating the whites of eggs
till stiff, and adding the powdered sugar. Brown
the meringue in a very hot oven, watching. it
carefully that it may not scorch. Serve warm,
with cream. If preferred, two whole eggs may
be used in the pudding, and in place of the
meringue use sweetened, whipped cream.
Serves six or eight persons.
Queen of Puddings
I qt. hot milk
3 eggs
I pt. soft breadcrumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/6 cup sugar
I teaspoon vanilla, or
1/2 cup melted butter
1/ 4 teaspoon spice
1/2 glass jelly
Melt the butter in the milk; soak the crumbs
in the milk for one-half hour; beat the yolks
of three eggs and the white of one till mixed,
add the sugar, salt, and spice to them. Mix
all together and pour it into a pudding pan
166 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
to fit in a cooker-pail of boiling water. Stir it
till the pudding is I60 degrees Fahrenheit, then
cover it and put it into a cooker for from one
to two hours. Make a meringue as directed
in the recipe for chocolate bread pudding, using
the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls
of powdered sugar. Pour the pudding into a
baking-dish for serving, spread the jelly on top
and the meringue over this, and brown it in a
hot oven.
Serves six or eight persons.
Steamed Cup Custard
I qt. milk
cup sugar
4 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla, or
1/20 teaspoon grated nutmeg
Heat the milk, beat the eggs, add the sugar
and flavouring. Strain the mixture into hot
custard cups, set them on a wire rack or inverted
strainer or perforated pan, which is arranged
in a large cooker-pail of rapidly boiling water
in such a way that several quarts of water may
be below the custards but not touch the cups.
Cover tightly at once and set it into a cooker
for one-half hour.
Serves six or eight persons.
Compote of Rice and Fruit
states cup rice
3 tablespoons sugar
38 cups milk
1/20 teaspoon salt
XX
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES
White Sauce
2 tablespoons butter
I cup milk
2 tablespoons flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
Few grains of white pepper
Melt the butter over moderate heat, add the
flour, and blend the two thoroughly. Heat the
milk over hot water, add it, one-third at a time,
to the butter and flour, stirring constantly and
allowing the mixture to become perfectly smooth
and glossy before adding more milk. Season it
and allow it to come to the boiling point. If it is
not to be served immediately, cover it and slip
it into the cooker to keep hot.
Sauce for Vegetables
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 1 cup milk
2 tablespoons flour
1 1/4 teaspoon salt
cup of vegetable stock
Few grains of white pepper
Make the sauce in the same manner as
white sauce, blending the milk and water in
which the vegetables were cooked, which is
called vegetable stock.
183
184 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Brown Sauce
2 tablespoons butter or clari-
I cup brown stock
fied fat
1 4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons flour
16 1 teaspoon pepper
Brown the butter slightly, add the flour and
stir constantly until the flour is a rich brown.
Add the seasoning and stock, one-third at a time,
stirring it until smooth. If butter is not used,
add the flour as soon as the fat is melted, as
other fats will acquire a strong flavour if allowed
to brown before the flour is added. Mutton or
lamb fat, or that from smoked or salted meats,
is not suitable for brown sauce.
Drawn Butter Sauce
1/4 cup butter
I cup boiling water
2 tablespoons flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/1/2 teaspoon white pepper
Melt the butter, add the flour and season-
ing, and mix them well. Add the water, one-
third at a time, stirring until the sauce grows
smooth. When it has come to the boiling
point it is done.
Caper Sauce
Drain one-half cup of capers, and add them
to one cupful of drawn-butter sauce.
Egg Sauce
To one cupful of drawn-butter sauce add two
hard-cooked eggs, cut in one-fourth-inch dice.
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES
185
Sauce for Fish
To one cupful of drawn-butter sauce add one-
half tablespoonful of lemon juice and one-half
tablespoonful of chopped parsley.
Hollandaise Sauce
1/2 cup butter
1/2 teaspoon salt
Yolks of two eggs
Cayenne pepper
I tablespoon lemon juice
1/2 cup boiling water
Rub the butter until soft and creamy, add
the egg yolks, lemon juice, and seasoning, and
rub them till blended, then pour on the boiling
water and stand the covered bowl, containing
the sauce, on a rack over a cooker pail of boil-
ing water and put it into a cooker for three min-
utes; or cook it on the stove over hot water as
soft custard, stirring it constantly.
Tomato Sauce
1/2 can tomatoes, or
I teaspoon salt
2 cups raw tomatoes
1/20 teaspoon pepper
I slice onion
3 tablespoons butter
1/27 bay leaf
3 tablespoons flour
1/2 cup water or stock
Cook all the ingredients but the butter and
flour in a cooker for one hour or more. Rub
them through a strainer and add this, gradually,
to the blended butter and flour.
Hard Sauce
1/6 cup butter
I cup powdered sugar
Nutmeg
186 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
Rub the butter till soft and creamy, add the
sugar gradually. When perfectly blended, pile
the sauce on a small dish or plate and put it into
a refrigerating box or other cold place till time
for serving, then grate nutmeg over the top.
Fruit Sauce
I glass of jelly, or
sp cup boiling water
1/2 pint grape juice
Sugar to taste
Cut the jelly into small pieces, add the water,
and bring the mixture to a boil. Let it stand in
a cooker for one-half hour or more, or leave it
on the stove till melted. If very sour jelly is
used, some sugar may be required to make it
sweet enough. With grape juice about one-half
cupful of sugar may be used. The sugar and
water should be brought to a boil, the grape juice
added, and the sauce immediately set aside to cool.
Brandy Sauce
1/4 cup butter
2 tablespoons brandy
I cup sugar
1/2 cup milk or cream
Yolks of two eggs
Whites of 2 eggs
Warm the butter to soften, but not melt it;
add the sugar gradually, and rub the two together;
add the beaten yolks and, when mixed, the
brandy and the milk or cream. Heat the sauce
over warm water in a cooker-pail until it regis-
ters I60 degrees Fahrenheit, stirring it con-
stantly. Cover it, and set the pail into a cooker
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES
187
for twenty minutes. When it is nearly ready,
beat the whites of eggs stiff and pour the hot
sauce over them, beating it until it is smooth.
Serve immediately.
Serves six or eight persons.
Vanilla Sauce
2 tablespoons butter
I cup boiling water
I tablespoon flour
1/4 cup sugar
I teaspoon vanilla
Rub together the butter and flour in a sauce-
pan, add the water and cook until it thickens.
Add the sugar, and, when dissolved, the vanilla.
Serve hot.
Nutmeg Sauce
Make it in the same way as vanilla sauce,
substituting brown sugar for white, and using
one-eighth teaspoonful of grated nutmeg in
place of the vanilla.
Buttered Crumbs
I tablespoon butter
1/ teaspoon salt
I cup soft, stale breadcrumbs
Few grains pepper
Use bread that is at least one day old, and
not sufficiently stale to be hard. Grate the
bread, or crumble it in the fingers ; or cut it
into one-inch slices, and these into quarters,
and rub two quarters together. If any large
pieces break off, crumble them fine with the
fingers. If bread is being crumbled for scalloped
188 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
dishes, it should be carefully done; if for stuff-
ing, bread puddings, and such uses where
it becomes moistened and softened it may be
cut into very thin slices, then across into strips
and small dice one-eighth inch in size. Mix
the seasoning with the crumbs, then add them
to the melted butter. When first mixed a few
crumbs absorb all of the butter, but if lightly
stirred with a fork for several minutes they will
become evenly buttered. If richer crumbs are
needed, the quantity of butter may be doubled.
Salted Nuts
I pt. water
I cup blanched nuts
1/2 cup salt
I teaspoon butter
Blanch the nuts according to directions given
below. Boil them in the salt and water for
eight minutes, drain them and put them into
a roasting-pan or pie plate with the butter. When
warm, stir them well that the butter may coat
each nut. Bake them in a moderate oven until
they are a very light brown, stirring them fre-
quently. When they are done, spread them
out to cool and allow them to stand until crisp
before putting them into a covered receptacle.
If peanuts are used, take raw nuts.
To Blanch Nuts
Pour boiling water on to shelled nuts, let
them stand two or three minutes, drain them
THE INSULATED OVEN
245
Add the liquid, one-third at a time, mixing the
dough in three separate portions in the bowl.
Cut through these three masses until they are
barely mixed, then roll the dough to about one-
half inch thickness; cut it into biscuits, lay them
on a greased pan, brush the tops with milk or
melted butter, and bake them for fifteen or twenty
minutes in an insulated oven with stones heated
so as to turn the paper a rich, dark brown, as
explained in the test on page 225.
Cup Cake
2 cup butter
1/2 cup milk
I cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg, or
cups flour
I teaspoon vanilla
2 eggs
teaspoons baking-powder
1/+ teaspoon salt
Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the beaten
yolks of eggs. Mix and sift the dry ingredients,
add them, one-third at a time, to the butter
mixture, alternating with the milk. Beat the
whites till stiff, add them and the vanilla, beat
the dough till barely mixed, and pour it into a
greased pan. The dough should not much more
than half fill the pan. Bake it for forty minutes
in an insulated oven, tested as explained on
page 225, for loaves of cake.
This recipe may be varied by adding one-half
cupful of raisins, currants, chopped citron or
246 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
nuts. Or two ounces of chocolate may be
melted and added to the dough.
If baked in layers or in gem pans the stones
must be heated somewhat hotter than for a loaf
cake. Allow fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven.
Sour Cream Cake
3 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
I cup sugar
cups flour
3/2 cup thick sour cream
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon soda
I cup raisins
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar,
then the cream. Mix and sift the dry ingredients,
add them to the liquid mixture, then add the
raisins, which have been floured with a little
of the measured flour, and, lastly, the stiffly
beaten whites of eggs. Put it into a greased
pan and bake it for forty minutes in an insulated
oven, heated for loaf cake, as explained in the
test on page 225.
Apple Sauce Cake
(Made without butter, milk or eggs)
2 cup white veal or beef drip-
1/4
teaspoon cloves
pings
I teaspoon nutmeg
I cup sugar
I cup raisins
I cup sour apple sauce
I teaspoon soda
teaspoons cinnamon
2 cups flour
Mix the ingredients in the order given, beat
the dough well, put it into a greased pan, and
THE INSULATED OVEN
247
bake it for forty minutes in an insulated oven,
heated for loaf cakes, as explained on page 225.
This cake seems, when baked, very much like
any spice cake.
Sponge Cake
6 eggs
Juice and rind of 1/2 lemon
I cup sugar
I cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar
and lemon; beat the whites of eggs till stiff, add
them to the mixture, and when barely mixed
add the flour and salt, folding them in lightly.
Put it into a bright, ungreased tin, and bake
it fifty minutes or an hour in an oven heated
not quite so hot as for butter cakes. The paper
should turn light brown when tested as explained
on page 225.
Let the cake stand five minutes before remov-
ing it from the pan.
Plum Cake
1/2 cup butter
I cup currants
2 cups sugar
cup pickled fruit syrup or
4 eggs
molasses
1/+ cup chopped nuts
2 cups flour
1/4 cup candied orange peel
teaspoon soda
I cup raisins
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 teaspoons mixed spices
Mix and sift the flour, soda, cream of tartar,
and spices. Put all the ingredients together
248 THE FIRELESS COOK BOOK
in the order given, flouring the fruit with a little
of the measured flour. Put it into a greased
pan and bake it for one and one-quarter hours
in an insulated oven, with stones heated as
explained on page 225, till the paper is a light brown.
Rich Fruit Cake
1/2 lb. butter (I cup)
1/2 lb. citron
1/2 1b. sugar (I cup)
1/4 lb. candied orange peel
6 eggs
I teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 cup brandy
teaspoon cloves
1/4 cup lemon juice
I teaspoon cinnamon
Rind of I lemon, grated
teaspoon allspice
2 cups blanched, chopped
I lb. raisins
almonds
I lb. currants
1/2 lb. flour cups)
Line the pan with three thicknesses of paper,
buttering the top layer. Mix the flour and spices.
Flour all the fruit except the citron. Mix the
ingredients in the order in which they are given.
The pan may be filled nearly full, as this cake
rises but little. Bake it for three hours or more
in a very moderate insulated oven. Test the
stones as explained on page 225, until the paper
will barely change colour. If, at the end of
two hours, the cake is not browned at all, take
out one or both of the stones very quickly and
heat them again till they will slightly brown the
tissue paper. The oven must be promptly closed
when the stones are removed, or the cake will be
Suet Pudding
I cup flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 cups bread crumbs
1/4 teaspoon salt
I cup finely chopped suet
Grating of nutmeg
I cup sugar
I cup milk or water
Mix the suet well with the flour, add other ingredients,
and make into a smooth batter. The pudding may be either
steamed or boiled, or baked. For steaming put into a but-
tered pan, or baking dish, cover with paper or a tin lid,
and set in a larger kettle of boiling water. Cook about an
hour.
For boiling, tie the dough up in a floured cloth and boil
from 2 1/2 to 3 hours. It may be baked in the same way as
cake.
Serve with any of the pudding sauces, or as a cake with-
out sauce.
One or more eggs may be added to enrich the pudding, or
a cup of raisins, chopped figs, dates, or nuts may be added
to give variety.
Preparing the Meal
About 3 hours before meal time put the meat for the
stew on to cook; add the vegetables to the stew, make
the suet pudding; while it is cooking, make the coffee and
set the table. Serve the stew on a large platter with the
meat piled in the center and the pieces of vegetables ar-
ranged around it. Serve the pudding, like cake, cut in
squares without sauce.
Extra Baking
Just before starting lunch mix the bread and set it to
rise. It will be ready for the second kneading after lunch
is over. Make rolls from part of the bread dough.
White Yeast Bread
3 quarts flour
2 tablespoons salt
I quart hot water
2 yeast cakes stirred into 1/2 cup
2 tablespoons sugar
of lukewarm water
2 tablespoons lard or other fat
Put lard, sugar and salt in large pan or bowl and add
the hot water. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and
about 5 pints of flour. Stir until smooth, add the remaining
flour and mix well. Turn the dough on to a board and
knead until it is smooth and elastic. Place in a well-greased
II
inches wide and 6 inches long. Fold the dough so that there
will be a layer of prunes between two layers of dough, grease
the outside, place in a greased pan, allow them to rise to
twice their size, bake.
Coffee Cake
I cup hot milk
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup lard
I teaspoon salt
1/2 yeast cake dissolved in 1/4 cup lukewarm water
Add hot milk with lard and salt, when lukewarm, add
dissolved yeast, flour enough to make the stiff batter-about
three cups, cover dish and let the batter rise, then spread in
a well greased pan, sprinkle with sugar and allow to rise,
bake. If raisins are desired add 1/2 cup just before putting
into baking pan.
BREAKFAST
Thursday
RYE MUFFINS
FRIED SALT PORK WITH MILK GRAVY
COFFEE FOR ADULTS-MILK FOR CHILDREN
Rye Muffins
1 1/2 cups rye flour
2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 cups white flour
6 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons drippings
1 1/2 cup milk or water
Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add liquid and melted drip-
pings and beat. Put quickly into heated, greased muffin
pan and bake about 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven.
Fried Salt Pork with Milk Gravy
Cut the pork in very thin slices and fry in a hot pan until
crisp and brown. Take out pork, pour off all but 3 table-
spoons of the drippings, and into this rub 2 tablespoons
flour. Add I cup of water slowly, boil well, add a cup
of milk. Cut the fried pork in 1/2 inch pieces and mix with
the gravy.
Preparing the Meal
Put water on to boil for coffee; make the muffins. While
they are baking make the coffee, set the table, fry the pork
and make the gravy.
13
3
inches or more in depth. The next day turn the mixture
out of the pan, slice in 1/2 inch slices and brown both sides
in hot, greased pan.
Brown Sugar Syrup
Melt 2 cups of brown sugar with I cup hot water ; boil
5 minutes and cool.
Preparing the Meal
Start 2 cups of hominy to cook as a mush the day before
while lunch is being prepared. Let it cook all afternoon
and pour the part for breakfast into the pan and leave over-
night in a cold place. Set the rest aside to bake with
cheese on Saturday. The next morning make the coffee,
start to fry the mush, and while it is cooking make the
syrup and set the table.
LUNCH OR SUPPER
Friday
RICE SOUP WITH CROUTONS
RICE AND CORN MEAL MUFFINS
Rice Soup
3 cups rice water
I tablespoon chopped onion
2 cups carrots
I tablespoon chopped celery
2 tablespoons drippings.
1 tablespoon flour
Cook the carrots, cut in small pieces and cook until ten-
der. Heat the drippings, add the onions and celery to it
and cook them 5 minutes without browning. Stir in the
flour, add this mixture to the carrots, add the rice water with
salt and pepper to taste.
Croutons
Cut stale bread into small cubes or in strips 2 inches wide,
3/4 inches thick, or in any fancy shapes desired. Dry in a
slow oven until crisp and light brown all the way through.
Rice and Corn Meal Muffins
I cup cooked rice
5 teaspoons baking powder
I cup flour
1 1/4 cups liquid
I teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons melted drippings
I cup corn meal
Mix and sift dry ingredients together, add rice to liquid
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and put
16
cook slowly until tender. Remove from fire and add about
1/2 cup sugar, or to taste. Serve either hot or cold, but not
luke warm.
Preparing the Meal
Four or five hours before meal time put the meat on to
cook; I hour before wash 6 medium sized potatoes and lay
them in the oven to bake. Wash and pare the vegetables,
remove the meat from the kettle, laying it in the warming
oven to keep warm. While the vegetables are cooking make
the apple sauce and the coffee and set the table.
If more convenient the potatoes may be peeled and quar-
tered and cooked with the other vegetables.
Extra Baking
Make bread in the morning so that it will be ready to bake
late in the afternoon when the corned beef is cooking. After
the dishes from the noon meal are washed, make and bake
the oatmeal cookies for Sunday.
Oatmeal Cookies
2 cups rolled oats
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup flour
2 tablespoons oleo
I cup sugar
I pinch of salt
I egg
3 tablespoons milk
Mix dry ingredients, add egg beaten, and milk, drop by
teaspoonsful into greased pan, bake in moderate oven.
BREAKFAST
Sunday
GRAHAM BISCUITS WITH DATE AND PRUNE JAM
SCRAMBLED EGG
COFFEE FOR ADULTS-COCOA FOR CHILDREN
Graham Biscuits
112 cups graham flour
I cup liquid
I1/2 cups white flour
3 tablespoons lard or crisco
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
6 teaspoons baking powder
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly
through by cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly
with the fingers. Add the liquid mixing with a knife.
Turn the mixture on floured bread board. Roll or pat to 1/2
inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 15 to 20 minutes
in a hot oven.
20
LUNCH OR SUPPER
Wednesday
SPLIT PEA LOAF
SLICED TOMATOES
BREAD WITH OLEO
TEA-MILK
Split Pea Loaf
4 cups split peas, cooked
I beaten egg
2 cups bread crumbs
I teaspoon minced onion
I tablespoon minced parsley, celery, or other flavoring as
desired. Salt and pepper to taste.
Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its
shape add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water
or another egg. Form into loaf. Brown in oven.
Preparing the Meal
Use split peas cooked on Tuesday. A half hour before
meal time make loaf and put in oven to brown. Slice the
tomatoes. Set the table and make the tea.
DINNER
Wednesday
BAKED CROQUETTES
BAKED POTATOES
HOT CINNAMON ROLLS
BANANAS WITH LEMON JUICE
LEMONADE
Baked Croquettes
3 cups chopped meat
I teaspoon onion juice
3 cups bread crumbs
I teaspoon salt
2 cups thick white sauce
Pepper to taste
Make a white sauce by stirring 1/2 cup flour into 1/4 cup
melted fat, cook till frothy, then add slowly 2 cups milk or
water, or the two mixed, stirring all the time, and cook
again till thick, stirring till smooth.
Add cooked meat-beef, mutton, veal or pork-and bread
crumbs. Mix well, form into croquettes about 3 inches
long, lay them in greased pan, and set in hot oven to brown.
Bananas with Lemon Juice
Slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with brown sugar and lemon
juice.
28
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
9
BEETS, see
SALADS
VEGETABLES
BREADS
CAKES
Ice CREAM
BERRIES, see
JELLIES
SWEET PICKLES
PUDDING
SALADS
BISCUITS, see BREADS
BISCUIT, see Ice CREAMS
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Educator Biscuit
I egg,
I tablespoon lard,
2 cups milk,
2 cups bran flour,
I cup white flour,
Pinch salt,
Teaspoon baking powder.
Egg Biscuit
2 cups flour (coffee cups),
2 heaping teaspoons baking-powder,
2 tablespoons cream,
2 eggs beaten lightly,
2 tablespoons butter,
Milk enough to make stiff dough.
Sift flour and baking-powder together, mix with butter,
then add milk and eggs, drop in pan and bake in quick oven.
10
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Boston Brown Bread
2 cups Indian meal,
I cup rye,
I cup flour,
I scant pint sweet milk,
I 1/2 cups molasses,
Pinch salt,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in I teaspoon hot water,
2 teaspoons cream tartar or 2 heaping teaspoons bak-
ing-powder.
Steam in covered tin 4 hours. Water must be boiling all
the time.
Brown Bread
2 cups scalded milk,
2 cups thin cornmeal mush,
I compressed yeast-cake,
2 cups white flour,
I cup sugar,
Salt,
Enough Graham flour to make a stiff batter.
Let rise over night. In morning add I cup molasses, I
teaspoon soda dissolved in 1/2 cup boiling water. Then add
Graham flour to make a stiff dough. Put in pans to let rise.
Bake in moderate oven for an hour. If adding raisins, use
I cup chopped; prunes, I cup chopped; put in when mixing
for pans. Mix only stiff enough to stir with a spoon.
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
13
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. (Corn Bread.- - Cont.)
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I cup milk,
I egg,
I tablespoon melted butter.
Sift all dry ingredients and add milk, egg, and melted
butter.
Nut Bread
4 cups whole wheat flour,
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
3/4 cup sugar,
I
teaspoon salt, all sifted together.
Stir in 2 cups milk,
I well-beaten egg,
I cup chopped nuts.
Bake 45 minutes in hot oven.
Raisin Bread
4 cups flour,
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 cup sugar,
I egg,
2 cups milk,
I teaspoon salt,
I cup sultana raisins.
Sift baking-powder and flour into basin, add sugar, salt,
and raisins. Beat up egg and add milk to it, pour into dry
ingredients.
Mix well and put into covered pan and raise
20 minutes.
Bake for I hour; cover with oiled paper.
Rice Bread
Rub I cup cold rice until smooth,
Mix with I cup of flour,
(Over)
14
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
I cup of sweet milk,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
Salt to taste.
Beat hard and long; then add 2 eggs beaten separately
and very light. Bake in thin layers, put together with but-
ter.
Soda Bread
I quart flour,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
After sifting, put in 2 tablespoons sugar, and raisins to
taste,
I small teaspoon baking soda mixed in large cup but-
termilk.
Mix without making lumpy.
Work quickly, put in very hot oven for 20 minutes; cool
oven, and bake for about IO minutes more.
Walnut Bread
I egg,
1/2 cup sugar,
Pinch salt,
1 1/2 cup sweet milk,
4 cups flour,
4 large teaspoons baking-powder,
I cup chopped nuts.
Raise 15 minutes. Bake slowly 45 minutes.
Cinnamon Buns
Put into a quart measure I cup sugar, 2/3 cup butter, and
fill to I pint, with scalded milk. Let stand until lukewarm,
then add I compressed yeast cake dissolved in a little warm
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
15
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
water. Then stir in flour to make a stiff dough; just before
finishing add 2 well-beaten eggs. Then stir until dough
forms a ball on end of crank and is velvety (prepare before
breakfast). Let rise and stir down, let rise again, then roll
out to about 1/2 inch thick. Spread with butter, sprinkle
with cinnamon and sugar, roll and cut, put into pans. Raise
and bake.
Hot-cross Buns
Heat 4 cupfuls flour so it is warm to touch when sifted.
Pour over a part of flour I cupful milk that has been scalded
and cooled to blood heat. Melt 1/2 yeast cake in 1/4 cup
lukewarm water. Let stand while 2 eggs are being beaten
to stiff froth; add eggs and 1/3 cup soft butter, 2 heaping
tablespoons sugar and salt.
Add remainder of flour and yeast, beat until it blisters.
Let rise over night. Next morning knead and pat into
loaf I inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter, put I teaspoon
currants, 2 pieces citron in each. Let rise, dredge with
sugar water, + each and bake.
Tea-cakes
2 eggs beaten lightly,
I pint milk,
Equal parts lard and butter,
2 quarts flour,
A little salt,
3 teaspoons baking-powder.
Crullers
I cup sugar,
1/4 cup butter,
(Over)
16
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
I egg,
1/4 cup milk,
1 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon vanilla,
I cup flour.
Puff-ball Doughnuts
3 eggs with I cup sugar beaten until light.
Add I pint milk,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg,
I quart flour.
Sift 2 teaspoons baking-powder with 2 cups flour, add to
eggs and beat well. Add more flour until the batter is
thick and heavy. Fry in deep fat and roll in powdered
sugar.
Wheat Gems
2 eggs,
2 cups milk,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
Flour to make a stiff batter,
Salt.
Cornmeal Griddle-cakes
Beat 2 eggs lightly, stir into them I teaspoon salt and I
teaspoon soda.
Dissolve in I tablespoon boiling water 2 tablespoons of
molasses and I tablespoon melted butter.
Now beat in alternately 1/2 cup flour and I quart butter-
milk; when smooth and free from lumps stir in enough corn-
meal to make a good batter. Beat in egg mixture.
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
19
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Rice Griddle-cakes
Take I cup of warm boiled rice, cooked very soft, and
stir into a cup of sweet milk, 1/2 teaspoon salt, I tablespoon
melted butter or 2 of cream, and the yolks and whites of 2
eggs beaten separately until stiff.
Mix thoroughly, then add enough flour to hold the rice
together in a thin batter, and bake on a griddle.
Wheat-flour Griddle-cakes
Sift 1 1/2 cups of flour with I 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder.
Salt. Mix I pint of milk with 3 eggs, whites and yolks
beaten separately. Add flour and bake in hot oven.
Berry Muffins
1/4 cup butter,
2 2/3 cups flour,
4 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
1/3 cup sugar,
I egg,
I cup milk,
I cup berries.
Cream butter and sugar, add egg well beaten; mix and
sift flour, salt, and baking-powder. Reserve 1/4 cup to mix
with berries.
Add berries mixed with flour, last.
English Muffins
2 cups flour,
I cup milk,
I egg,
Little salt,
(Over)
20
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
4 teaspoons baking-powder.
Bake in muffin-rings on griddle.
English Muffins
I pint flour,
1/2 teaspoon sugar,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I teaspoon baking-powder,
1/2 pint milk,
2 eggs.
Sift flour, sugar, salt, and baking-powder together; beat
yolks with milk, mix with flour. Add, last, whites beaten to
a stiff froth. Bake on griddle in muffin-rings.
German Muffins
2 eggs,
I cup warm milk,
Little salt,
I cup flour,
I tablespoon butter.
First beat whites to very stiff froth; beat yolks, salt, and
little of milk together, add sifted flour and rest of milk; beat
lightly with egg-beater, add beaten whites, and bake in slow
oven.
Graham Muffins
1 1/4 cups Graham flour,
I cup flour,
I cup sour milk,
1/3 cup molasses,
3/4 teaspoon soda,
I teaspoon salt.
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
21
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Mix dry ingredients and sift, add milk to molasses, and
combine mixtures.
Rice Muffins
4 heaping teaspoons of cooked rice. While it is still
hot add a good-sized piece of butter,
I egg beaten lightly with a little salt.
Sift together 1/2 pint flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking-powder;
add this alternately with I cup of milk.
Nut Loaf
Grind 2 cups nut meats, hickory, English walnuts, al-
monds, butternuts, and black walnuts. Take a loaf of stal
bread, mix bread with nuts, salt, parsley, marjoram, 2 table-
spoons melted butter, I cup milk. Work with hands, form
into firm loaf, place in buttered pan, and bake I hour in
moderate oven, basting with butter and water. Serve cold
with mayonnaise or hot with tomato sauce.
Bread Pancakes
I cup bread crumbs soaked over night in milk - little
flour,
I pint milk,
I egg,
Little salt,
2 teaspoons baking-powder.
Popovers
4 eggs - beat whites and yolks separately,
I pint milk,
I cup flour,
A little salt.
Add whites last. Bake in warm earthen cups.
22
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Graham Popovers
2/3 cup entire wheat flour,
1/3 cup flour,
1/4 teaspoon salt,
7/8 cup milk,
2 eggs,
1/2 teaspoon melted butter.
Mix salt and flour, add milk gradually, then butter; add
egg, beaten separately. Beat 2 minutes, using Dover egg
beater. Turn into hissing gem pan, bake 30 or 35 minutes.
Do not open oven door for at least fifteen minutes after the
popovers have been put in.
Breakfast Puffs
Take dough that has been raised over night. Pull out to
thickness of doughnuts, cut into 2 1/2 inches in length, fry in
boiling lard.
Cracker Puffs
6 Boston butter crackers.
Split and soak 1/2 hour in water.
Take from water and place each half in buttered pan,
inner side up. Butter this side and bake in very hot oven.
Bake 1/2 hour; they should be puffed and brown. Serve
with preserved fruit and whipped cream, or for breakfast
with butter and syrup.
Hot Puffs
I cup sweet milk,
I cup sifted flour,
I egg,
I teaspoon butter,
Cont. on page 25
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
25
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. (Hot Puffs.- Cont.)
Pinch salt and little sugar.
Beat egg well, add salt, sugar, milk, and lastly flour.
Bake in hot oven 20 minutes.
Cinnamon Rolls
Mix a rich baking-powder biscuit dough, to which has
been added
1/2 cup sugar,
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon to each pint flour.
Roll out as nearly square as possible, spread lightly with
soft butter, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar mixed. Roll
and cut into 1/2 inch sections. Lay about 2 inches apart,
bake quickly.
Dutch Rolls
I cup lard,
1/2 cup butter,
4 cups milk,
I teaspoon salt,
5 teaspoons baking-powder,
Flour to make a soft dough.
Roll out about 1/4 of an inch thick. Sprinkle with I cup
sugar, I oz. cinnamon. Roll up as a jelly-roll and cut in
slices
I
inch
in
thickness.
Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven.
Parker House Corn Rolls
Sift together
114 cups white flour,
3/4 cups cornmeal,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
1/2 teaspoon salt,
I tablespoon sugar.
Chop in 2 tablespoons butter.
(Over)
26
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Add I beaten egg to 1/2 cup milk and turn into dry 111.
gredients, making a soft dough that can be handled. Ada
more milk if necessary. Turn on a board, toss lightly, roll
out 1/2 inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter. Put bits of but-
ter in center of each round, fold opposite ends to meet
center, brush top with milk and bake 15 minutes in quick
oven.
White Mountain Rolls
16 cups flour,
1/2 cup sugar,
I cup butter,
4 cups boiling milk,
Whites 4 eggs beaten stiff,
I yeast cake dissolved in very little warm water and
stirred smooth.
Have milk blood heat and add sugar and butter; add part
of flour and mix in whites of eggs, knead stiff, and leti rise
over night. In morning, knead into rolls and raise. Bake
30 minutes, after rubbing with beaten egg.
Waffles
3/4 pt. clabber (buttermilk, I pint)
I teaspoon salt,
I tablespoon melted lard.
Beat until perfectly smooth. Add flour enough to make
a soft batter. Beat hard and long, for success depends on
it. Just before putting into irons, which must be smoking.
hot, add I level teaspoon of soda dissolved in I teaspoon
hot water.
Graham Wafers
Beat to a cream 1/2 cup butter. Add gradually I cup
granulated sugar and unbeaten white of I legg. Beat vigor-
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
27
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
ously for IO minutes. Dissolve 1/2 a level teaspoon soda
bicarbonate in 8 tablespoons warm water.
Add to mixture, then stir in gradually I quart Graham
flour. Knead smooth and roll out a little at a time as thin
as a wafer. With a sharp knife cut into squares of about 2
inches and bake in a slow oven until crisp and brown.
Rye meal or whole-wheat flour may be substituted.
Waffles
2 cups of sifted flour,
I teaspoon baking-powder sifted with flour twice,
I teaspoon salt,
3 eggs,
I tablespoon butter,
2 cups of milk.
Beat the yolks smooth, add the milk, and turn this upon
the prepared flour. Whip lightly and quickly for one min-
ute, add the stiffened whites, and drop by the spoonful into
heated and greased waffle irons.
Waffles
2 cups milk,
2 eggs,
3 cups flour,
2 teaspoons baking-soda,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
I saltspoon salt,
I tablespoon butter, melted.
Sift cream tartar with flour. Dissolve soda with hot
water, beat eggs very thoroughly, add flour last.
Rice Waffles
I cup freshly cooked rice,
I heaping tablespoon butter,
(Over)
28
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC.
Well-beaten yolks 3 eggs,
To 2 cups sour milk, add I teaspoon baking-powder.
Add to other mixture. Add flour enough to make stiff
batter, fold in whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in very
hot, well-greased waffle-irons.
BREAD PUDDING, see PUDDINGS
BRUSSELS SPROUTS, see SALADS
32
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
Black Cake
(used since 1823)
I cupful sour cream,
I cupful molasses,
I pound sugar,
I pound flour,
I pound currants,
I pound raisins,
1/2 pound citron,
1/2 pound chopped figs,
1/2 pound almonds,
3/4 pound butter,
IO eggs, leaving out whites of two,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cinnamon,
I teaspoon cloves,
I teaspoon allspice,
4 tablespoons orange marmalade,
Bake very slowly.
Boiled Chocolate Filling
I square chocolate,
As much milk as you need,
Sugar to taste,
I teaspoon cornstarch.
Boil until stiff. When cool, add vanilla.
Chocolate Cake
1/2 cup butter,
2 cups sugar,
2 cups flour,
1/2 cup milk,
CAKE
33
CAKE
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
2 teaspoons vanilla,
2 eggs,
I square chocolate.
Frosting
I square chocolate,
3 tablespoons sugar,
I tablespoon water.
Boil till it candies.
Chocolate Cake
2 eggs,
2 cups brown sugar,
1/2 cup chocolate dissolved in I cup boiling water,
1/2 cup sour milk,
2 cups flour,
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla,
1/2 teaspoon soda,
Salt.
Chocolate Loaf Cake
1/2 (scant) cup butter,
1 1/2 cups sugar,
2 eggs,
1/2 cup rich milk,
1/2 cup coffee into which dissolve 3 squares Baker's choc-
olate,
2 cups flour,
1/2 teaspoon soda (scant) dissolved in the milk.
Bake in a moderate oven.
34
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
Cookies
I cup butter,
1/2 cup powdered sugar,
I egg,
I tablespoon of brandy or sherry,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon of baking-powder.
Roll out and cut.
Peanut Cookies
Rub to a cream 1/2 pound butter and 1/2 pound granu-
lated sugar. Break into this, while beating, 2 eggs, and
stir into cream. Then add gradually 3/4 pound flour knead
well; do not be afraid that it is too stiff. Roll out dough
a
little at a time, using powdered sugar instead of flour for
pin and board. Sprinkle board with chopped peanuts and
roll dough 1/4 inch in thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter and
bake lightly.
Cornstarch Cake
Whites of 6 eggs,
2 cups sugar,
I cup milk,
2 cups flour,
3/4 cup butter,
I cup cornstarch,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon lemon flavoring,
Salt.
Delicate Cake
I cup cornstarch,
2 cups flour,
Cont. on page 37
CAKE
37
CAKE. (Delicate Cake.- Cont.)
I cup sweet milk,
2 cups sugar,
I cup butter,
Salt,
Whites of 7 eggs beaten very stiff,
I teaspoon cream tartar.
Rub butter and sugar to a cream. Sift cream tartar with
flour. Mix 1/2 teaspoon soda with hot milk. Add milk
to sugar - then flour - last eggs.
Gold Cake
I cup sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
I cup milk,
4 egg yolks,
3 cups flour,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon soda,
Salt.
Gingerbread
I cup sugar,
2 egg yolks,
1 1/2 cups molasses (Porto Rico),
I lump butter about size of an egg,
1/2 tablespoon lard,
I cup sour milk,
3 cups flour,
I good pinch salt,
I heaping teaspoon cinnamon,
I heaping teaspoon nutmeg,
1/2 teaspoon ginger,
1/2 teaspoon cloves - if you like,
(Over)
38
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
I heaping teaspoon soda dissolved in I cup boiling coffee.
Bake 20 minutes in hot oven.
Ginger Cake
2 cups molasses,
I cup butter,
I cup sour milk,
3 eggs,
2 tablespoons ginger,
I teaspoon soda.
Flour to make soft batter.
Ginger-snaps
I cup sugar,
I cup lard,
I cup molasses,
3 teaspoons ginger,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in I tablespoon of vinegar,
2 eggs,
3 tablespoons coffee,
2 cups flour,
Salt.
Hermits
Mix 2 eggs,
2 cups brown sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
1/2 cup currants,
I teaspoon ground cloves,
I teaspoon grated nutmeg,
1/2 cup raisins,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in cup hot water,
I teaspoon cinnamon.
CAKE
39
CAKE
Beat together. Add flour to make stiff paste. Roll thin,
cut into rounds, bake in quick oven.
Hickory-nut Cake
2 cups sugar,
3/4 cup butter,
I cup milk,
I cup chopped nutmeats,
3 cups flour,
3 eggs,
3 even teaspoons baking-powder.
Bake in layers - put together, with frosting made of
whites of 2 eggs, sugar, and chopped nut meats, putting 1/2
meats on top.
Hickory-nut Kisses
Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff,
I pound granulated sugar,
I cup hickory nut meats chopped fine.
Drop on buttered paper. Bake in moderate oven 15
minutes.
Boiled Icing
I cup sugar,
1 1/2 cups milk.
Boil IO minutes.
Boiled Icing (2)
Boil until stringy I cup sugar, with 4 tablespoons cold
water. Then add to the beaten white of I egg.
40
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
Brown Sugar Icing
Cook I cupful dark brown sugar with 1/4 cup milk until it
will form a soft ball when rolled between the fingers.
Remove and beat until it thickens.
1/2 cup of nuts may be added.
Maple Sugar Icing
Put maple sugar with a very little water into a pan and
melt on stove. Let come to a boil, and remove from stove.
When cool, add beaten whites of 2 eggs; beat until very
light. Cover cake and sprinkle with almonds or English
walnuts.
Mocha Icing
I cup cream,
2/3 cup sugar,
I level teaspoon butter.
Set on stove; when it threads take off and beat in 1/4 cup
strong coffee.
Lemon Jelly Cake
2 cups sugar,
3 cups flour,
I cup sweet milk,
1/2 cup butter,
3 eggs,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon soda,
For the Jelly
Grated rind of 2 lemons,
Add juice of same,
I cup sugar,
Cont. on page 43
CAKE
43
CAKE. (Lemon Jelly Cake.- Cont.)
1/2 cup water,
I teaspoon butter,
I tablespoon flour.
Boil until thick.
(Jumbles
2 eggs,
1 1/2 cups sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
I cup cornstarch,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
4 tablespoons cold water.
Nut Macaroons
Beat white of I egg until light and add gradually, while
beating constantly, I cup brown sugar. Fold in I cup pecan
nuts chopped fine, sprinkled with salt. Drop from end of
spoon on to buttered paper, I inch apart. Bake in moderate
oven until delicate brown.
Peanut Macaroons
Beat the white of I egg very stiff.
Add gradually, while beating constantly, 1/4 cup fine gran-
ulated sugar, few grains salt. Then add 5 tablespoons
finely chopped peanuts, I teaspoon vanilla. Drop on but-
tered paper, put 1/2 peanuts on top. Bake in moderate
oven.
Mrs. Morgan's Cake
2 cups sugar,
I egg,
2 cups milk,
(Over)
44
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
I cup butter,
5 cups flour,
I cup raisins sifted in flour,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
Salt.
Spice Marble Cake
Light part
Whites of 3 eggs,
1/2 cup butter,
1/2 cup sugar,
1/2 cup milk,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon cream tartar sifted with flour,
1/2 teaspoon soda.
Dark part
Yolks of 3 eggs,
1/2 cup sugar,
I cup molasses,
1/2 cup butter,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon soda,
1/3 cup sour milk,
I teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg.
Butter pan and alternate light and dark, putting light on
top. In light part, dissolve soda in hot water in dark part,
dissolve it in sour milk.
Mocha Cream Filling
I cup butter,
Yolk I egg,
CAKE
45
CAKE
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar,
Coffee extract to taste.
Wash butter to remove salt, and pat to remove water.
Beat to a cream, add beaten yolk, sugar gradually, then ex-
tract. Caramel may be added to give color.
Molasses Layer Cake
Dissolve I teaspoon soda in I tablespoon boiling water
and add to it 1/2 cup molasses. Then mix with it
I cupful brown sugar,
2 tablespoons melted butter,
I 1/4 cupfuls boiling water or coffee,
1/2 teaspoon cloves,
I teaspoon cinnamon,
3 cupfuls flour.
Beat until smooth and bake in layers.
Molasses Layer Cake
I cup molasses,
3 tablespoons butter,
I egg,
1/2 cup coffee,
2 cups flour,
I teaspoon soda dissolved in hot coffee.
Nut Cake
2 cups sugar,
I cup butter,
3 cups flour,
I cup milk,
4 eggs,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
(Over)
46
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
I teaspoon soda,
2 cups hickory nut meats,
Salt.
Oatmeal Hermits
Put 2 cupfuls of oatmeal,
I cupful of seeded raisins,
1/2 cup of English walnuts through the coarse chopper
of a meat cutter.
Mix together I cup of white sugar, salt, I cupful of
melted butter, 2 well-beaten eggs. Add I teaspoon soda
dissolved in 6 tablespoons hot sweet milk, I teaspoon each
of cinnamon and nutmeg, and 2 cupfuls of flour. Stir in
other ingredients, drop on a tin sheet about 3 inches apart,
and bake in moderate oven.
I-2-3-4 Cake
I cup butter,
2 cups sugar,
3 cups flour,
4 eggs,
I cup milk,
I teaspoon soda,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
Salt.
Orange Cake
3 eggs,
2/3 cup milk,
I scant cup sugar,
Butter size of egg,
2 teaspoons baking-powder,
Salt.
Cont. on page 49
CAKE
49
CAKE. (Orange Cake.- - Cont.)
Filling
2 oranges, peeled, and seeds, etc., removed,
I cup boiling water,
I tablespoon cornstarch,
Scant cup sugar.
Mix cornstarch with a little cold water and add to boiling
water and sugar. Boil until it thickens and add oranges.
Ribbon Cake
2 cups of sugar,
I cup of butter,
4 eggs,
I cup of milk,
2/3 cup of flour,
I teaspoon cream tartar,
1/2 teaspoon soda,
Flavor with lemon.
Take 1/3 of batter and add 2 tablespoons grated chocolate.
Take 1/2 of remaining batter and add pink fruit coloring.
Use any kind of filling.
Sponge Cake
Four eggs beaten lightly without separating. Add 1 1/2
cups of granulated sugar and beat IO minutes. Carefully
mix 1 1/2 teaspoons of baking-powder into 2 scant cups of
flour, add to sugar and eggs, a pinch of salt and 2/3 cup of
boiling water. Put in moderate oven, after four minutes
quicken oven ; if in thin layers, bake IO minutes.
Filling for Cake
One cup milk, take out 2 tablespoons in cup, heat re-
mainder. Mix with cold milk 1 1/2 tablespoons of corn-
(Over)
50
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CAKE
starch, add the yolk of an egg beaten with 1 1/2 tablespoons
sugar. Add all to hot milk, stirring constantly until thick-
ened. When slightly cold, add flavoring.
Silver Cake
I cup sugar,
1/2 cup butter,
I cup milk,
3 cups flour,
4 egg whites,
2 teaspoons cream tartar,
I teaspoon soda,
Salt.
Peach Shortcake
Sift I quart flour with 4 level teaspoons of baking-powder
and I of salt. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter. Add I 1/2 cups
milk. Knead quickly, roll out about I inch in thickness.
Cut to fit pie-tins. Bake in quick oven about 20 minutes.
Chop rather fine I can peaches and drain.
When cakes are done pull apart - butter bottom, spread
over it a good layer of peaches, dust with sugar, put on top
of cake and serve with whipped cream. Fresh peaches may
be used in season.
Strawberry Shortcake
With 1/2 cup sugar stir I tablespoon butter to a cream,
I egg, beaten well,
1/2 cup sweet milk,
I cup flour,
I teaspoon baking-powder,
Bake in 2 tins.
Mash berries (mix with sugar), put between and on top
of layers.
CAKE
51
CAKE
Strawberry Shortcake
To I pint rich buttermilk add I even teaspoon of soda
and beat well.
Stir in 1/2 teaspoon of salt and enough Graham flour to
make batter stiffer than cake batter.
Make into 2 thin cakes and bake in a brisk oven.
Mash I quart strawberries, sweeten, and spread between
and on top of cake.
Serve with whipped cream.
Crust for Shortcake
1 1/2 cups flour,
I teaspoon baking-powder,
I tablespoon sugar,
Little salt,
I scant cup lard and butter, melted,
Bake in quick oven.
Sponge Cake
2 cups powdered sugar,
Scant 1 1/2 cups flour,
7 eggs,
Salt,
Juice and grated rind of I lemon.
Beat yolks and sugar until very light. Add the rind of
lemon and whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Stir
in flour and lemon juice, stirring as gently as possible.
Strawberry Cake
Make a sponge cake mixture. When cold cut off top and
scoop out center. Ice outside of cake and fill inside with
strawberries and powdered sugar. Serve with cap on, iced,
and covered with whole capped berries.
Chicken Pillau
I fowl, cleaned and trussed,
2 onions,
6 whole peppers,
I teaspoon salt,
4 quarts water.
Let boil, skim. Set back and simmer until fowl is done.
Take from saucepan for gravy 1 1/2 pints broth. Wash I
cup rice and put into remainder of broth. Boil rapidly half
an hour. While rice is cooking boil 3 eggs hard.
Gravy
I tablespoon butter,
I tablespoon flour,
1 1/2 pints broth,
Salt and pepper and giblets chopped fine.
Put chicken on platter, surround with rice, garnish with
eggs. Serve gravy in boat.
80
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
CUSTARDS, ETC.
sliced thin. Line a basin with caramel, put in custard, and
cook until firm about 1/2 hour.
To make caramel, cook 1/2 cup sugar and 1/8 cup water
until brown, use while warm.
Caramel Baked Custard
Mix 1/2 cup granulated sugar with I tablespoon of water
and cook over rather hot fire until brown. Shake, if in-
clined to burn. Pour into buttered pudding dish and let
harden. When hard, pour in custard mixture and bake in
pan of water.
Boiled Custard
4 eggs,
Quart milk,
A little salt,
Sugar and flavoring to taste.
Boil until thick in double boiler.
Mocha Macaroon Custard
Make a custard of
4 yolks of eggs,
1/2 cup sugar,
1 1/2 cups rich milk,
1/2 cup strong coffee,
6 tablespoons powdered macaroons,
and bake until set. When cold, cover with whipped whites
of eggs, 1/4 cup hot syrup, and 1/4 cup whipped cream. Gar-
nish with candied cherries and angelica.
Rice Custard
Soak 1/2 a cup of cold cooked rice in a pint of hot milk
until the grains separate. Add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten
86
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
DRESSINGS FOR SALAD AND FISH, ETC.
Mayonnaise Dressing
Put the oil, egg, and bowl on ice until cold.
Beat the yolk until light and foamy, then put in the oil,
one drop at a time, beating until thick, thin with a very little
vinegar and begin dropping the oil again. When there
is
enough and it is thick, add a very little salt and Cayenne.
Mayonnaise Dressing
Mix mayonnaise dressing with vinegar that beets have
been pickled in.
Peanut Cream
2 tablespoons peanut butter,
I teaspoon mustard,
I teaspoon sugar,
Salt and pepper.
Mix well into this 2 tablespoons thick cream, I tablespoon
chopped olives. Thin with vinegar, pour over either let-
tuce or celery.
Salad Dressing
I yolk of egg,
3 tablespoons of oil,
I tablespoon of tarragon vinegar,
I teaspoon of onion juice,
Salt and tobasco sauce.
Salad Dressing
I tablespoon melted butter,
I tablespoon of sugar,
I tablespoon of cold water,
3 tablespoons of vinegar,
DRESSINGS FOR SALAD AND FISH
87
DRESSINGS FOR SALAD AND FISH, ETC.
I egg,
1/4 teaspoon mustard,
Salt and pepper.
Mix beaten egg, melted butter, and water together.
Then mix vinegar, mustard, and sugar, and add to egg mix-
ture. Put in double boiler and stir until a little thick. Set
on ice until cold. This is good with cold slaw.
To Serve with Salads
Saltine crackers, buttered and sprinkled with paprika.
Put into oven and brown.
t
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
BREADS
Bannocks
1 Cupful of Thick Sour 2 Cupfuls of Flour
Milk
1/2 Cupful of Indian Meal
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Egg
A pinch of Salt
Make the mixture stiff enough to drop from a
spoon. Drop mixture, size of a walnut, into boiling
fat. Serve warm, with maple syrup.
Boston Brown Bread
1 Cupful of Rye Meal
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
1 Cupful of Graham Meal
1 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Cupful of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Indian Meal
1 Heaping Teaspoonful
1 Cupful of Sweet Milk
of Soda
Stir the meals and salt together. Beat the soda
into the molasses until it foams; add sour milk, mix
all together and pour into a tin pail which has been
well greased, if you have no brown-bread steamer.
1
2
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Set the pail into a kettle of boiling water and steam
three or four hours, keeping it tightly covered.
Brown Bread (Baked)
1 Cupful of Indian Meal
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Cupful of Rye Meal
(scant)
1/2 Cupful of Flour
1 Cupful of Milk or Water
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Put the meals and flour together. Stir soda into
molasses until it foams. Add salt and milk or water.
Mix all together. Bake in a tin pail with cover on for
two and a half hours.
Coffee Cakes
When your dough for yeast bread is risen light and
fluffy, cut off small pieces and roll as big as your
finger, four inches long. Fold and twist to two inches
long and fry in deep fat. Serve hot with coffee.
Corn Meal Gems
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Baking
1 Cupful of Corn Meal
Soda
(bolted is best)
1 Egg
2 Cupfuls of Milk
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
of Tartar
Stir the flour and meal together, adding cream of
tartar, soda, salt and sugar. Beat the egg, add the
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
5
and fry on a griddle in butter or pork fat. Serve hot
with butter and maple syrup.
Soft Gingerbread
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Ginger
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Butter or
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Lard
Stir the soda into the molasses until it foams, add
sour milk, ginger, salt and melted butter. Last of
all, add flour enough for quite a stiff batter, and
bake. This makes one sheet.
Huckleberry Cake
Pick over and wash and flour well one cupful of
fresh huckleberries. Add these to the batter for
soft gingerbread. Serve hot, with butter.
Quick Graham Bread
1 Pint of Graham Meal
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
Stir soda into the molasses, add sour milk and
salt; add all to the meal, beating well. Sweet milk
will do with a little less soda. Bake thirty minutes,
or according to heat of the oven. A moderate oven
is best.
6
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Graham Bread (raised over night)
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Tablespoonful of Lard
3 Cupfuls of Graham
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Meal
1 Yeast Cake
3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
Mix flour and meal together and rub in lard, sugar
and salt. Add yeast cake which has been dissolved
in one-half cup of cold water. Mix with warm water
at night. Set in a warm place to rise. In the morn-
ing stir and let rise to twice its bulk. Knead and
put in baking pans. Raise again and bake forty-five
minutes.
Graham Muffins
1 Pint of Graham Flour
1/2 Pint of White Flour
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Put the salt into the flour and soda into the
molasses. Stir all together and mix with milk or
water. Drop into muffin tins and bake twenty
minutes.
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes
2 Cupfuls of Sour Milk
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
2 Teaspoonfuls of Soda
Stir the soda and salt into the milk and add flour
enough to make thin batter. Fry on a well-greased
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
7
griddle. One spoonful for each cake. Serve hot with
butter and maple syrup.
Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes
1 Egg
1 Level Teaspoonful of
1 Pint of Sweet Milk
Soda
2 Level Teaspoonfuls of
Pinch of Salt
Cream of Tartar
Flour enough for thin bat-
ter
Mix soda and cream of tartar with flour. Beat
the egg, add milk and stir into flour. Fry in small
cakes on a griddle.
Jenny Lind Tea Cake
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Tablespoonful of Melt-
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
ed Butter
1 Egg
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
of Tartar
Stir salt, soda and cream of tartar into the dry
flour. Beat the egg, add sugar and butter, stir into
the flour and mix with enough milk to make batter
as thick as a cake. Bake in a moderate oven. To be
eaten hot with butter.
8
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Real Johnny Cake
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
1 Cupful of Yellow Meal
of Tartar
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
or,
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking-
powder
Add enough milk or water to make a thin batter,
and bake.
New England Buns
1 Cupful of Milk
1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 and 1/3 Cupfuls of 1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Sugar
1 Yeast Cake
2/3 Cupful of Butter or
Flour enough for Soft
Lard
Dough
1/2 Cupful of Currants
1 Teaspoonful of Extract
of Lemon
Dissolve the yeast in a half-cupful of cold water.
Scald the milk and, when nearly cold, add the yeast,
half the sugar, and flour enough to make a thin
batter; let it rise to twice its bulk. When light and
foamy, add the rest of the ingredients; sprinkle a
little flour over the currants, stir the soda into the
flour, using flour enough to make stiff dough. Set
again, then roll, cut with a cooky-cutter, about an
inch thick, and let rise again. Bake in a moderate
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
9
oven twenty-five minutes. Mix in the morning, if
wanted for the evening meal. When done, brush
over the top, while warm, with equal parts of milk
and molasses.
Nut Bread
2 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Egg
3
Teaspoonfuls of Baking- 1 Cupful of Milk
powder
3/4 Cupful of English Wal-
1/4 Teaspoonful of Salt
nut Meats, chopped
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
fine
Beat egg and sugar together, then add milk and
salt. Sift the baking-powder into the dry flour, and
put all the ingredients together. Add the nuts last,
covering with a little flour, to prevent falling, and
bake in a moderate oven one hour.
Oatmeal Bread
2 Cupfuls of Rolled Oats
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
3 1/2 Cupfuls of Boiling
1 Yeast Cake
Water
Pinch of Salt
Let the rolled oats and boiling water stand until
cool, then add the molasses, salt, and yeast cake
which has been dissolved in cold. water. Stir in flour
enough to make a stiff dough. Let it rise over night.
In the morning, stir it down and let it rise again.
Mold into loaves and let rise again.
Bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven.
This will make three small loaves.
10
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Parker House Rolls
1 Quart of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Lard
1/2 Pint of Milk
3 Tablespoonfuls of
1 Yeast Cake
Sugar
Scald the milk. When nearly cold add the yeast
cake which has been dissolved in one-half cup of
cold water. Rub into the flour, the lard, sugar and
salt. Stir all together with a knife and knead. Let
rise to twice its bulk and knead. Let rise again and
knead. Roll half an inch thick, cut into rounds,
spread with butter and double over. Rise again,
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Mix at ten
o 'clock in the morning if wanted for supper, a little
earlier in cold weather.
Popovers
1 Egg
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Cupful of Milk
Beat the egg, and stir flour and milk in slowly,
a little flour, then a little milk. Salt a little. This
will make a very thin batter. Drop into well-
buttered muffin pan, bake in a very hot oven and
serve with hot sauce for a pudding, or eat with
butter.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
11
Rye Muffins
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Rye Meal
1/3 Cupful of Yeast or
3 Tablespoonfuls of
1 Yeast Cake dissolved
Sugar
in Water
Mix with warm water at night. In the morning
add one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in
two tablespoonfuls of boiling water; stir well. Bake
in a gem-pan for twenty or thirty minutes.
Breakfast Sally Lunn
1 Egg
2 Teacupfuls of Milk
1 Quart of Flour
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
Piece of Butter the size
of Tartar
of an Egg
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar A little
Salt
Mix salt, sugar, cream of tartar and soda, with the
flour. Beat the egg, stir into it the melted butter and
milk. Stir all together and bake in a muffin pan,
fifteen or twenty minutes.
Sour Milk Biscuits
1 Pint of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
1 Cupful of Sour Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Put lard and salt into the flour and soda with the
12
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
sour milk. Mix together, roll thin and cut into
rounds. Bake twenty minutes.
Spider Cake
2 Cupfuls of Bread Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/3 Cupful of Lard
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
of Tartar
Put the soda, salt and cream of tartar into the
dry flour. Rub in the lard and mix with water into a
soft dough. Roll to the size of the spider or griddle.
When the spider is hot and well greased with lard,
lay on the cake and cover. Bake ten minutes on
one side, then ten on the other. This can be made
quickly without waiting for the oven to heat. Serve
hot with butter.
White Bread
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Pinch of Salt
3 Teaspoonfuls of Sugar
1/2 Yeast Cake
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
Rub sugar, salt and lard into the flour. Dis-
solve the yeast in half a cupful of cold water. Put
all together and mix to a stiff dough with milk or
water, at night. In the morning, push it down and
let rise again. Then knead and place in a pan.
Let it rise to twice its bulk and bake thirty minutes.
CAKES
Filled Cookies
1 Cupful of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter or
of Tartar
Lard
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Milk
1Tablespoonful of Vanilla
3 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
Roll thin and cut with a cooky-cutter.
Filling for Cookies
1 Cupful of Chopped
1/2 Cupful of Water
Raisins
1 Teaspoonful of Flour
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Cook this until thick, being careful not to burn it.
Place cookies in a well-buttered pan, spread on a
teaspoonful of the filling and cover with another
cooky. Bake in a moderate oven.
Sugar Cookies
1 Cupful of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
2 Tablespoonfuls of
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon
1 Egg
Extract
Flour enough to roll
Beat the butter, sugar and egg together, add the
13
14
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
milk, stir the cream of tartar and soda into the flour
dry. Stir all together and roll.
Cream Cake
2 Eggs
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Cupful of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
(sour preferred)
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Sugar
Flavor with Lemon
Stir the soda into the cream; beat the eggs; add
sugar, salt, flour and cream; last of all, the flavoring.
Delicious Cake without Eggs
1 Cupful of Thick, Sour Pinch of Salt
Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
1/2 Cupful of Butter
mon
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful each of
1 Cupful of Chopped
Cloves and Nutmeg
Raisins
Stir the soda into the sour milk, add melted
butter and sugar, salt and spices. Put the flour
over the raisins and stir all together. This will make
one loaf or twelve little cakes in gem-pans.
Feather Cake
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
3 Eggs
3 Cupfuls of Flour
Butter the size of an Egg
1 Cupful of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
Flavor with Almond
of Tartar
Beat fifteen minutes
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
15
Cream together the butter and sugar. Add the
well-beaten eggs, then the milk. Beat together.
Put soda and cream of tartar into the flour, dry.
Stir all together with the flavoring. This will make
two small loaves.
Old-time Gingersnaps
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Butter or
1 Teaspoonful of Ginger
Lard
Boil the molasses five minutes. Remove from the
fire, and add soda, butter and ginger. When cooled
a little, stir in the flour until thick enough to roll,
then roll thin as a postage-stamp. Cut with a
cooky-cutter, and bake in a hot oven, being careful
not to burn. Shut in a tin pail. These will keep for
a long time.
Gold Cake
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
Yolks of 4 Eggs
1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
Whites of 1 Egg
1 3/4 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Flavoring
Cream butter and sugar together. Add the well-
beaten eggs, milk, flavoring and flour into which the
cream of tartar and soda have been stirred. Bake
thirty minutes in a moderate oven.
16
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Hermits
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
2/3 Cupful of Butter
mon
2 Eggs
1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg
1 Cupful of Raisins,
1/2 Teaspoonful of Cloves
Chopped Fine
Flour enough to roll
2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk
Cream the butter and sugar together, beat the
eggs, add to the butter and sugar, then stir in the
molasses, milk and spices. Add the raisins which
have been covered with flour, and, last of all, the
flour into which the dry soda has been sifted. Roll
thin and cut with cooky-cutter.
Jumbles
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon
2 Eggs
Flour enough to roll
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Cream together the butter and sugar. Stir into
the well-beaten egg. Add milk. Stir cream of
tartar and soda into the flour, dry. Beat all together
and flavor. Cut into rings and bake in a well-
greased pan.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
17
Nut Cake
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Butter
of Tartar
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
2 Eggs
1 Cupful of Hickory Nut
2 Cupfuls of Flour
Meats, or English
Walnuts
Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the
well-beaten eggs and milk and put the soda and
cream of tartar into the flour. Stir all together,
adding nut meats, covered with flour, last.
Oatmeal Cookies
2 Eggs
2/3 Cupful of Cocoanut
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/4 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Oatmeal
1/2 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
or Rolled Oats
2 Tablespoonfuls of But-
ter
Cream the butter and sugar together and add the
well-beaten eggs. Add the remainder of the in-
gredients and drop on a well-greased baking-pan.
Bake in a moderate oven, from fifteen to twenty
minutes.
18
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
One, Two, Three, Four Cake
1 Cupful of Butter
2/3 Cupful of Milk
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
3 Cupfuls of Flour
of Tartar
4 Eggs
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
Cream the butter and sugar together and add the
well-beaten eggs; beat all and add milk; beat again.
Sift the cream of tartar and the soda into the flour;
stir all together. Bake in a slow oven. This will
make two loaves.
Ribbon Cake
3 Eggs
A little Salt and flavor,
2 Cupfuls of Sugar -
Lemon or Almond
2/3 Cupful of Butter
1 Large Cupful of Raisins
1 Cupful of Milk
1/4 Pound of Citron
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
mon and Cloves
of Tartar
A little Nutmeg
1 Tablespoonful of Molas- 1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
ses
Cream the butter and sugar together, and add the
well-beaten eggs and the milk. Mix the salt, soda
and cream of tartar, with the flour. Stir all together.
Put half of this mixture into two oblong pans. To
the remainder add one tablespoonful of molasses,
one large cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped,
a
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
19
quarter of a pound of citron sliced thin, one teaspoon-
ful of cinnamon and cloves, a little nutmeg, and one
tablespoonful of flour. Bake in two pans of the
same size as used for the first half. Put the sheets
together while warm, alternately, with jelly between.
Roll Jelly Cake
4 Eggs
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Sugar
Pinch of Salt
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Extract
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
of Lemon
of Tartar
Beat together eggs and sugar, add salt and extract.
Stir into the dry flour the soda and cream of tartar.
Mix all together. Bake in a moderate oven, in a
large pan, and turn out, when done, on a clean
towel, which has been sprinkled with powdered
sugar. Spread with jelly and roll while warm.
Silver Cake
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1/3 Cupful of Butter
1 Scant Teaspoonful of
2 Cupfuls of Flour
Cream of Tartar
Whites of 3 Eggs
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
Almond Flavoring
Cream together the butter and sugar, add milk and
flavoring. Stir cream of tartar and soda into dry
flour. Last of all add whites of eggs, beaten to a
20
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
stiff froth. To make a very good cake, the butter
and sugar should be creamed with the hand. Citron
also makes it very nice.
Sponge Cake, No. I
3 Eggs
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Cream
1/2 Cupful of Water
of Tartar
Pinch of Salt
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
Beat eggs and sugar together, add water and
salt, then put soda and cream of tartar into the
dry flour. Beat all together. Bake slowly.
Sponge Cake, No. 2, Grandmother's Rule
4 Eggs
1 Cupful of Flour
Pinch of Salt
1 Teaspoonful of Baking-
1 Cupful of Sugar
powder
Beat the eggs ten minutes, add sugar, and beat
again. Then add the flour, into which has been
stirred the baking-powder. Stir all together and
flavor. Bake in a moderate oven.
SOME OLD-FASHIONED CANDIES
Chocolate Taffy
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Molasses
1
Small Teaspoonful of
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Sugar
Flour
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Butter the size of a Wal-
2 Squares of Chocolate
nut
Stir the sugar, flour and grated chocolate into the
molasses and milk. When hot add the butter. Boil
until it strings. Pour into buttered tin. When
nearly cold mark into squares.
Molasses Candy
2 Cupfuls of Molasses
Butter the size of a Wal-
2 Teaspoonfuls of Vinegar
nut
1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
Put the molasses, vinegar and butter into a sauce-
pan. Boil until it strings when dropped from a
spoon, or until it is brittle when dropped into cold
water. Stir the soda in briskly and pour into a
buttered tin. When nearly cold, pull until nearly
white. Cut into small pieces or sticks and lay on
buttered platter.
21
22
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Butter Scotch
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Cupful of Butter
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Boil until it strings. Pour into buttered tin and
when cold break into pieces. This is very nice when
cooled on snow.
Pop Corn Balls (very old recipe)
1 Cupful of Molasses
Piece of Butter, half the
size of an Egg
Boil together until it strings and then stir in a
pinch of soda. Put this over a quart dish full of
popped corn. When cool enough to handle squeeze
into balls the size of an orange.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
25
Bramberries
Crust
Filling
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Cupful of Raisins
1/2 Cupful of Lard (scant)
1 Cracker
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Lemon
Just enough Water to
2/3 Cupful of Sugar
wet smooth
1 Egg
A Little Salt
Beat the egg, add sugar, salt, lemon juice and
grated rind. Roll cracker fine, chop raisins and mix
all together. Roll the crust thin, cut into rounds.
Put a spoonful of filling between two rounds and
pinch the edges together. Prick top crust with fork.
Bake in iron pan for twenty minutes.
Cream Puffs
1 Cupful of Hot Water
1 Pinch of Salt and Bak-
1/2 Cupful of Butter
ing Soda
1 Cupful of Flour
3 Eggs
Put the water and butter, into a dish on the stove.
When boiling, stir in the dry flour, into which you
have put the salt and soda. Stir until smooth and
thick. When nearly cool, add three eggs, one at a
time. Drop on a buttered pan and bake twenty
minutes in a hot oven. This will make twelve cakes.
When they are cold, make a slit in the side with a
26
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
sharp knife, and fill with whipped cream or the
following mixture:
One pint of milk, one egg, two-thirds of a cupful of
sugar, one large spoonful of flour. Beat the egg,
sugar, flour, and a little salt together till smooth and
stir into the boiling milk. Flavor with lemon.
Floating Island
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Corn-
4 Eggs
starch
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Pinch of Salt
Put the milk on the stove and heat to nearly the
boiling point. Whip whites of the eggs to a stiff
froth and drop them by spoonfuls into the hot milk
for a few minutes to cook. With a skimmer remove
these islands to a plate. Beat the yolks of the eggs
with sugar, salt and cornstarch. Stir into the milk
until it boils. Flavor and cool. Turn into a glass
dish and lay the "islands" on top of the custard.
Serve cold.
Huckleberry Dumplings
2 Cupfuls of Flour
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
of Tartar
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
27
Mix ingredients together with water until thick
enough to roll. Cut into rounds an inch thick as for
biscuits. Boil one quart of huckleberries in one-half
pint of water and one-half cupful of sugar. Drop in
the dumplings. Boil for twenty minutes. Serve
with cold sauce or cream and sugar.
Coffee Jelly
1 Small Box of Gelatine
1 Scant Quart of Boiling
1 Pint of Strong Coffee
Water
1 Cupful of Sugar
Flavor with Vanilla
Soak the gelatine in cold water for fifteen minutes.
Stir into the coffee and add sugar, salt and water,
then vanilla. Pour into a mould and set away to
cool. Serve with sweetened whipped cream.
Lemon Jelly
1/2 Box of Gelatine
1 Cupful of Sugar
1/2 Cupful of Cold Water
3 Lemons
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Boiling
Water
Soak gelatine in the cold water for half an hour.
Add boiling water, sugar and juice of lemons. Stir
well and strain into mould or small cups.
28
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Strawberry Shortcake, No. I
1 Pint of Flour
1 Box of Strawberries
1/3 Cupful of Lard
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
A little Salt
of Tartar
Milk enough to make a
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
stiff dough
Put the salt, soda, lard and cream of tartar,
into the dry flour, mix with milk (water will do),
divide into halves and roll large enough for a Wash-
ington pie tin. Spread butter over one, lay the other
on top, bake twenty minutes. Hull and wash and
mash the berries and sweeten to taste. Separate
the two cakes, butter, and place the berries between.
Serve hot.
Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2
1 Tablespoonful of Butter 1 Teaspoonful of Cream
2/3 Cupful of Sugar
of Tartar
1 Egg
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Milk
1 Box of Strawberries
1 Cupful of Cream
Cream together the butter and sugar and add
the well-beaten egg and milk. Stir the cream of
tartar and soda into the dry flour and beat all to-
gether. Bake in two Washington pie tins. Hull,
wash, mash and sweeten to taste, the berries. Put
half of these between the two loaves, the other half
on top, with whipped cream on top of all.
FISH
Clam Fritters
1 Egg
1 Cupful of Milk
1 Cupful of Bread-flour and a Little Salt
Beat the egg and half the milk, adding the flour
gradually, to make the batter smooth. Salt, and
add the last half-cupful of milk. Put one clam into
one teaspoonful of batter and drop into boiling lard.
Serve hot.
Fish Balls
1 Cupful of Hot Mashed
2 Teaspoonfuls of Melted
Potatoes
Butter
1/2 Cupful of Shredded
2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk
Cod-fish
Put the fish into a piece of cheese-cloth, let cold
water run over it, and squeeze dry. Mix ingredients
all together. Take a little flour in the hand and
roll half a tablespoonful of the mixture between
the palms, to the size of a small peach. Fry in deep
fat.
To Boil a Lobster
Have a large kettle on the fire with plenty of
boiling water, deep enough to cover the lobster
31
MEAT DISHES
A La Mode Beef
3 Pounds of Beef
Potatoes
6 Onions
Salt
4 or 5 White Turnips
Take three pounds of a cheap cut of beef. Wash,
put into an iron pan, sprinkle over it salt to taste.
Pare six onions, more or less, according to size of
family, and prepare four or five small white turnips
sliced thin. Lay these around the meat, and pour
over all a quart of cold water. Put into the oven and
bake three hours. Pare potatoes enough for the
family, putting them in an hour and a half before
serving. This is a most delicious way to cook beef.
As the water cooks away, add more. Thicken the
gravy, with flour wet with water, as you would with
any roast meat.
Beefsteak Pie
2 Pounds of Beef (any
1 Onion
cheap cut will do)
1 Tablespoonful of Salt
Cut the meat into small pieces; cover with cold
water, salt and put into the oven; cut the onion into
34
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
35
small pieces and add. Bake three hours in an
earthen dish. Half an hour before serving, put over
the top a crust, made of two cupfuls of flour, two
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one-half
teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of lard.
Wet with water or milk, as for biscuits.
Beef Stew with Dumplings
3 Pounds of Shin-bone
2 Large Onions
with Meat
1 Tablespoonful of Salt
6 Potatoes
Wash the meat, put into a kettle, cover with cold
water and boil four hours. Add the salt, and more
water, as it boils away. Pare the onions, wash and
slice thin; put them in with the boiling meat, allow-
ing two hours for cooking. Pare potatoes, wash,
slice thin; put them in with the meat and onions,
allowing three-quarters of an hour for cooking.
Dumplings
2 Heaping Cupfuls of
1 Teaspoonful of Baking
Flour
Soda
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream
1 Teaspoonful of Lard
of Tartar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Glass of Water
Roll out an inch thick and cut into round pieces.
Put these on a wire plate, on top of the meat; cover
and let boil twenty minutes. Lift them out, and
38
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Breaded Pork Chops
6 Chops
1 Cupful of Bread Crumbs
1 Egg
Pinch of Salt
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Beat the egg and milk together, adding the salt.
Dip the chops into this mixture, then into the
crumbs. Fry in hot fat. Veal cutlets can be served
in the same way.
Potted Beef
3 Pounds of a Cheap Cut 1/2 Can of Tomatoes
of Beef
Salt to taste
3 Onions
Put the meat into a kettle, cover with cold water
and boil slowly for three or four hours. Add salt
and onions, cut fine. Put the tomato through a
colander. Boil all together, and, as the water boils
away, add more. Serve the meat hot. The liquor
makes a delicious soup, thickened with two table-
spoonfuls of flour.
A Fine Way to Cook Veal
2 Pounds of Veal, or ac-
1 Egg
cording to size
of
Bread Crumbs
family
Milk, Salt and Pepper
Cut the veal into small pieces, a good size for
serving, and season with salt and pepper. Dip into
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
39
the egg, which has been beaten light, then into the
bread crumbs. Have a little pork fat (lard will do)
in a frying-pan, and cook until brown. Set on the
back of the stove and cook slowly for ten minutes.
Cover with milk, and bake in the oven very slowly
for one hour in a covered pan. The toughest veal,
cooked in this way, will be as tender as chicken.
Veal Patties
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Boiled
1/2 Teaspoonful of Poul-
Rice
try Dressing
1 Cupful of Veal
1 Egg
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Milk
Grind or chop the veal, salt and stir into the rice
with the dressing; beat the eggs, add milk, and stir
all together. Drop a tablespoonful spread out thin
on the griddle, and fry as you would griddle-cakes.
Chicken, pork, or lamb may be used instead of veal.
PICKLES
Pickled Cauliflower
1 Cauliflower
1 Teaspoonful of Whole
2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt
Cloves
1 Quart of Vinegar
1 Teaspoonful of White
Mustard Seed
Pull the cauliflower into pieces, put into cold
water with the salt, heat gradually and boil five
minutes, then drain until dry. Put this into a
glass jar. Boil the clove and mustard seed in the
vinegar, and pour over the cauliflower, hot. Have it
covered with vinegar. Seal while hot.
Green Chopped Pickle, No. I
1 Peck of Green Toma-
3 Pints of Vinegar
toes
2 Tablespoonfuls of All-
6 Large Onions
spice
4 Green Peppers
2 Tablespoonfuls of
2 Red Peppers
Whole Cloves
2
Pounds of Brown Sugar 2 Sticks of Cinnamon
4 Bunches of Celery
Put the tomatoes, onions and peppers through
the meat-grinder, or chop fine, and sprinkle over
43
46
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Chow Chow, No. I
1/2 Peck Green Tomatoes 1/4 Cupful of Ground
1 Large Head of Cab-
Black Pepper
bage
1/2 Ounce of Celery Seed
6 Large Onions
2 Pounds of Brown Sugar
1/2 Pint Grated Horse-
3 Quarts of Vinegar
radish
1 Cupful of Salt
1/4 Pound of White Mus-
tard Seed
Chop or grind tomatoes, cabbage and onions,
very fine and salt over night. Next day, drain
off the brine, add vinegar and other ingredients,
then mix well and put into glass jars. Do not cook.
Chow Chow, No. 2
1 Peck of Green Toma-
1 Tablespoonful of Cin-
toes
namon
1 Cupful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Cloves
6 Onions
1 Tablespoonful of All-
6 Peppers
spice
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Even Spoonful of Gin-
Vinegar enough to cover
ger
Cut the tomatoes, onions and peppers into small
pieces. Put the salt over them and let stand over
night. Drain off the liquor the next day and throw
it away. Mix all together, cover with vinegar and
simmer until tender. Seal in glass jars.
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
47
Cold Catsup
1 Peck of Ripe Tomatoes 2 Tablespoonfuls of Pep-
2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt
per
1 Teacupful of White
4 Red Peppers
Mustard Seed
8 Celery Stalks, or
2 Teacupfuls of Chopped
2 Ounces of Celery Seed
or Ground Onions
2 Teaspoonfuls of Ground
1 Teacupful of Sugar
Cloves
3 Pints of Vinegar
Drain the tomatoes well before mixing. Mix
together, let stand a few hours and it is ready for use.
Corn Relish
18 Ears of Corn
1 Pint of Vinegar
1 Onion
4 Cupfuls of Sugar
1 Cabbage
1/2 Cupful of Salt
1/4 Pound of Mustard
2 Peppers
Cut the corn from the cob, chop onion, peppers
and cabbage, add sugar, salt and vinegar, and cook
slowly three-quarters of an hour. Ten minutes
before taking from the fire, add a very scant fourth of
a pound of dissolved mustard. Seal in glass jars.
Home-Made Cucumber Pickles
Take enough small cucumbers to fill four one-
quart jars; wash and sprinkle over them one cupful
of table salt; let them remain over night; in the
PIES
Rich Pie Crust
3 Cupfuls of Flour
1 Dessertspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Lard
Put salt and lard into the flour, working in the
lard with the hand until thoroughly mixed. Add
enough water to barely_wet,-ice-cold water is best.
This is sufficient for two pies.
Pork Apple Pie
4 Apples
1 Teaspoonful of Ground
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
Cinnamon
12 Pieces of Fat Salt
Pork, size of a Pea
Line a pie-plate with rich crust; pare, core and
slice apples thin, to fill the plate; sprinkle over these
the sugar, cinnamon and pork; cover with crust and
bake in moderate oven. To be eaten warm.
Chocolate Custard Pie
1 Pint of Milk
2 Tablespoonfuls of Cocoa
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
or
3 Eggs
1 Square of Chocolate
Pinch of Salt
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
52
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
53
Beat yolks of eggs and add sugar and salt. Wet
the cocoa with half a cup of warm milk and stir into
the yolks. Flavor. Line a deep pie-plate with rich
pie-crust, pinching a little edge around the plate.
Pour in the mixture and bake until it rises. Beat
the whites to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of
sugar, spread over the pie and brown in a hot oven.
Cocoanut Pie
1 Pint of Milk
1/2 Cupful of Grated
3 Eggs
Cocoanut
Pinch of Salt
Piece of Butter the size
of a Marble
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add sugar and salt
and beat again. Put in the butter which has been
melted, milk and cocoanut. Line a deep pie-plate
with pie-crust and pour in the mixture. Bake until
it rises-this is not nice if baked too long. Beat the
whites of the eggs stiff and put on top of pie when it
is cool. Set in the oven to brown.
Cranberry Pie
1 Quart of Cranberries
2 Cupfuls of Sugar
2 1/2 Cupfuls of Water
Line a deep pie-plate with crust. Put the cran-
berries on the stove, with the water, and cook until
tender, then rub them through a colander. Put in
two scant cupfuls of sugar, and boil for fifteen
54
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
minutes. When cool, pour this into the plate, lay
narrow strips of pie-crust from the center to the
outer edge, and bake in a hot oven.
Cream Pie
1 Cupful of Sweet Cream 2/3 Cupful of Sugar
White of One Egg
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Bake with two crusts. Beat white of egg till
stiff; add sugar, beat again; stir in the cream and
flavor-
Old-Time Custard Pie
1 Pint of Milk
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
3 Eggs
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Line a deep plate with pie-crust, rolling it large
enough to pinch up a little edge around the plate.
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add sugar and salt, and
beat again; then add the milk and stir well. Pour
into the plate. Bake until it rises, being sure to
remove from the oven before it wheys. Grate over
the top a little nutmeg. The quality of the pie
depends largely on the baking.
Frosted Lemon Pie
1 Lemon
3 Eggs
1 Cupful of Sugar
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Milk
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the flour, the juice
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
55
and rind of the lemon. Beat all together, add a
little of the milk, and sugar; beat, then add the rest
of the milk. Line a plate with crust, the same as for
custard; pour in this mixture and bake, being careful
not to let it whey when it is done. Beat the whites of
the eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of
sugar, spread over the top, and set in the oven to
brown.
Mock Mince Pie
1 1/2 Crackers
1 Cupful of Steeped Tea
1 Cupful of Raisins
1 Egg
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
Spices of all kinds (1/2
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Teaspoonful of each)
1/3 Cupful of Vinegar
Pumpkin Pie, No. I
3 Cupfuls of Pumpkin
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
(the bright yellow
mon
kind preferred)
1/2 Teaspoonful of Nut-
3 Eggs
meg
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Sugar
1 Quart of Milk, a little
1 Heaping Tablespoonful
Salt
of Flour
Boil the pumpkin till very tender and press
through a colander. Mix all ingredients together.
Line two deep pie-plates with a nice crust, and pour
in the mixture, and bake until they rise.
56
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Pumpkin Pie, No. 2
2 Cupfuls of Stewed and
1 Cupful of Sugar
Sifted Pumpkin
Pinch of Salt
2 Crackers Rolled Fine
1/2 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
Boston Crackers or 3
mon
Uneedas
1 Pint of Milk
Pour the mixture into a deep pie-plate lined with
crust, and bake in a slow oven one hour.
Rhubarb Pie
1 Pint of Rhubarb
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Tablespoonful of Flour 1/4 Teaspoonful of Soda
Remove the skin, and cut into small pieces
enough rhubarb to fill a pint bowl. Add the soda,
and pour over it boiling water to cover. Let stand
fifteen minutes and pour off the water. Line a deep
plate with a rich crust. Put in the rhubarb, sugar
and flour, cover with crust. Bake twenty minutes
or half an hour.
Rolley Polys
Roll pie crust very thin and cut into strips four
inches long and three inches wide. Over these
spread jelly and lap the crust over, pressing edges
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
57
together. Brush over the top with milk and sprinkle
over a little sugar. Bake fifteen minutes.
Squash Pie
2 Cupfuls of Squash
1 Teaspoonful of Ground
5 Tablespoonfuls of
Cinnamon
Sugar
1/4 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Tablespoonful of Flour
1 Egg
2 Cupfuls of Milk
Pare the squash, boil till tender, and sift through a
colander. Beat the egg, add sugar, flour, cinnamon
and salt. Stir these into the squash and add the
milk, stirring in slowly. Bake in a deep plate, like
a custard pie.
Cream Washington Pies
1 Egg
2 Tablespoonfuls of
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Melted Butter
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Rounding Teaspoonful
1/2 Cupful of Milk (scant)
of Cream of Tartar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Soda
Cream butter and sugar together, add the well-
beaten egg; then the milk into which has been stirred
the soda and cream of tartar; last of all, the flour.
Bake in three round shallow dishes.
58
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Cream for Filling
1 Cupful of Milk
1 Heaping Tablespoonful
1 Egg
of Flour
A Little Salt
2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar
1/2 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Put the milk on the stove to heat. Put the sugar,
flour and salt into the well-beaten egg and stir into
the milk when boiling. When cool, add vanilla and
spread between the layers of cake.
PUDDINGS
Bread Pudding
1 Pint of Stale Bread
1/2 Cupful of Raisins
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
1 Cupful of Sugar
mon
1 Egg
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Pour hot water over the stale bread and let soak
until soft. Then add other ingredients and bake
for three hours in a moderate oven. If eaten cold,
serve with hot sauce. If eaten hot, serve with cold
sauce.
Steamed Chocolate Pudding
Butter size of a Walnut
1 Square of Chocolate, or
1/2 Cupful of Sugar
Two Dessertspoon-
1/2 Cupful of Milk
fuls of Cocoa
1 Cupful of Flour
1 Egg
1 Teaspoonful of Baking- Salt
to
Taste
powder
Cream together the butter and sugar, then add
egg and milk; then the cocoa, flour, salt, and flavor-
ing. Steam for an hour and a half, and serve hot
with sauce.
70
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
71
Graham Pudding
1 1/2 Cupfuls of Graham
1 Egg
Flour
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1/2 Cupful of Molasses
1/2 Cupful of Raisins and
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Currants, mixed
1/4 Cupful of Butter
Salt and Spice to taste
Stir the soda into the molasses, then add the
beaten egg and milk, salt and spice, and melted
butter. Add the flour and, last of all, currants
and raisins, which have been sprinkled with flour.
Steam two hours in a tin pail set in a kettle of water
and serve hot with sauce.
Hasty Pudding
Into a dish of boiling water (a double boiler is
best) stir Indian meal, very slowly. Let it cook for
an hour. The water should be salted a little. Turn
this into a bowl. The next day, or when perfectly
cold, cut into slices and fry in pork fat or hot lard.
This is served with molasses.
Baked Indian Pudding
2 Quarts of Milk
1 Cupful of Molasses
1
Cupful of Yellow Corn- 1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
meal
Put one quart of the milk into an earthen pudding-
pot, and the other quart of the milk into an agate
72
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
dish, on the stove, to scald. Stir the meal into the
hot milk slowly, one handful at a time, until it
thickens. Remove from the stove and add molasses,
pouring the mixture into the cold milk. Bake six
hours in a slow oven; serve warm with cream. If
properly cooked; it will be red and full of whey.
Orange Pudding
4 Oranges
3 Eggs
3 Cupfuls of Milk
2 Tablespoonfuls of Corn-
1 Cupful of Sugar
starch
Pinch of Salt
Remove peel and seeds from the fruit and cut
fine. Sprinkle over the oranges half the sugar.
Let stand for a few hours. Beat the yolks of the
eggs, add the rest of the sugar, cornstarch and salt,
and stir into the boiling milk. Pour this, when
cooled, over the oranges and sugar. Beat the
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add two table-
spoonfuls of sugar. Spread this over the top and
brown in the oven. To be eaten cold.
Plum Pudding
Take ten or twelve Boston crackers, split them
open and soak over night in milk. Use a large pud-
ding dish that will hold three or four quarts. Put in
a layer of crackers, a handful of raisins, two table-
spoonfuls of sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, and a
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
73
little butter on the crackers; repeat this three times.
Have a layer of crackers on the top. Make a custard
of three or four eggs, five is better, one cupful of
sugar, a little salt, and milk enough to fill the dish
within two inches of the top. Bake in a slow oven
four or five hours. Let stand until cold, and it will
slip out whole. Serve with hot sauce.
Queen's Pudding
1 Pint of Bread
1 Cupful of Sugar
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Butter
3 Eggs
1 Lemon
Soak one pint of bread in a quart of milk till
soft. Beat together the yolks of the eggs, sugar,
butter, and the juice and rind of half a lemon. Stir
all together and bake until it rises, about an hour
and a half. When nearly cold, spread the top with
jelly, and then the white of the eggs, beaten stiff.
Brown in the oven. To be eaten cold.
Poor Man's Rice Pudding
1 Quart of Milk
1 Piece of Butter, size of
1 Small Cupful of Sugar
a Hickory Nut
1/2 Cupful of Washed
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
Rice (scant)
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla
Bake slowly for three hours; the success lies in
the baking. If baked right it will be creamy on top.
74
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
Suet Pudding
1 Cupful of Molasses
1 Teaspoonful of Soda
1 Cupful of Milk
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Cupful of Chopped Suet 1 Teaspoonful of Clove
1 Cupful of Raisins
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna-
3 Cupfuls of Flour
mon
1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg
Beat the soda into the molasses, add milk, salt
and spices. Cover the raisins and suet with some of
the flour, stir all together. Steam three hours in a
tin pail, set in a kettle of boiling water. Serve hot
with cold sauce, made of one cupful of sugar and
one-third cupful of butter, creamed together. Grate
a little nutmeg over the top.
Tapioca Cream
1 Quart of Milk
1 Teaspoonful of Corn-
5 Tablespoonfuls of
starch
Tapioca
2/3 Cupful of Sugar
3 Eggs
Pinch of Salt
Soak the tapioca in a little warm water for an
hour. Put the milk on the stove in a sauce pan.
Add the sugar and salt to the beaten yolks of the
eggs. When the milk is scalded put in the soaked
tapioca and when boiling, stir in the eggs. Cook
a few minutes and remove from fire. Stir in the
beaten whites and flavor. To be eaten cold.
SOUPS
Bean Porridge
Pick over and wash two-thirds of a cupful of
white beans. Put on the back of the stove in cold
water. Let these boil slowly, while the dinner is
cooking. When the boiled dinner has been taken
up, put these beans into the liquor in which the
dinner was cooked. Boil one hour. Wet three
tablespoonfuls of flour with water, and stir in while
boiling, to thicken. Serve hot, adding a little milk,
if you like.
Connecticut Clam Chowder
3 or 4 Slices of Salt Pork 1 Teaspoonful of Parsley
3 Potatoes
25 Soft-shelled Clams
1/2 Onion
1 Quart of Water
1 Cupful of Tomatoes
Salt and Pepper
3 Crackers
1 Cupful of Milk
Cut three or four slices of salt pork and fry in the
bottom of a kettle. Add the potatoes cut into dice,
onion shaved, a cupful of stewed tomatoes, rolled
ship crackers, minced parsley, soft-shelled clams,
and boiling water. Add salt and pepper to taste and
cook till the potatoes are tender. A little hot milk
may be added just before taking up.
78
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
79
Massachusetts Clam Chowder
3 Quarts of Clams
8 Boston Crackers
6 Medium-sized Potatoes 4 Slices of Salt Pork
1 Small Onion
Wash the clams clean, put them on the stove
to cook, with one pint of cold water. Boil until
the shells burst open. Remove from the stove,
pour the clam liquor into an earthen dish and
set away to settle. When the clams have cooled
a little, pick them from the shells, remove the
night-caps, cut off the head, to the shoulders,
washing each clam. Cut three or four slices of
fat salt pork and fry in the bottom of a kettle,
with half an onion. Skim these from the fat, pour
in the clam liquor, add a little hot water. When
this boils, add the raw potatoes, which have been
pared and sliced thin, and cook until tender. Split
the crackers open and soak till soft in milk or water.
Add these and the clams to the potatoes. Cook
ten minutes, then add a quart of milk and salt, if
needed. Do not let it boil after adding the milk.
Serve hot. This is very delicious.
New England Fish Chowder
4 Slices of Fat Salt Pork 2 or 3 Pounds of Fresh
6 or 8 Potatoes
Haddock or Codfish
1 Small Onion
8 Boston Crackers
Fry the salt pork, with the onion, in the bot-
80
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
tom of a kettle, skim from the fat, and pour in
about a quart of water. Slice the potatoes thin,
after they have been washed and pared. Make
alternate layers of fish and potatoes, seasoning
each layer with pepper and salt. Cook until both are
tender. Then put in the split crackers, which have
been soaked in milk or water, as for clam chowder.
Cook for ten minutes. Pour in a quart of milk, add a
small piece of butter and serve hot.
Lamb Broth
2
Pounds of Fore-Quarter 1 Tablespoonful of Salt
of Lamb
1 Teaspoonful of Sage
2/3 Cupful of Rice
Leaves
Put the lamb into a kettle, cover with cold water,
add the salt and cook three hours. As the water
boils away, add more. Wash the rice, allowing three-
fourths of an hour to cook; put in the sage, about
fifteen minutes before serving, and thicken with two
tablespoonfuls of flour, wet in two-thirds of a cupful
of water. The sage may be left out if preferred.
A Good Oyster Stew
25 Oysters
Butter
1 Teaspoonful of Flour
Salt
1 Quart of Milk
Take twenty-five oysters, with their liquor and
put these into an agate dish on the stove with salt to
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
81
taste, in a pint of cold water. Boil five minutes.
Stir into this one heaping teaspoonful of flour, which
has been wet with two tablespoonfuls of cold water.
Add one quart of milk. Let it come to a boil, but
be sure not to have it boil. Remove from the fire,
and add a piece of butter the size of an egg. This is
sufficient for eight people.
Potato Soup
4 Potatoes
Piece of Butter size of an
3 Pints of Milk
Egg
Small piece of Onion
Take four large potatoes, boil until done and
mash smooth, adding butter and salt to taste.
Heat the milk in a double boiler, cook the onion in
it a few minutes and then remove. Pour the milk
slowly on the potato, strain, heat and serve im-
mediately. Thicken with one tablespoonful of flour.
VEGETABLES
Green Corn Fritters
2 Cupfuls of Corn, grated 1/2 Cupful of Flour
from the cob
1 Level Teaspoonful of
2 Eggs
Cream of Tartar
A Little Salt
1/2 Level Teaspoonful of
1/2 Cupful of Milk
Soda
Beat the eggs, then add the milk and salt. Stir
the corn into the dry flour, wetting with the milk
and eggs, then fry in hot lard.
Delicious Stuffed Baked Potatoes
Bake six potatoes, or enough for family. When
done, set away to cool slightly. Cut off a small
piece, scoop out the inside, mash, add butter, salt,
and milk, also tiny bits of parsley, if liked. Fill the
shells with this mixture, put back in the oven and
bake until brown.
Creamed Potatoes
4 or 5 Baked Potatoes
1/2 Teaspoonful of Salt
1 Pint of Milk
Butter, the size of a Wal-
nut
Pare the potatoes and cut into small pieces. Put
them on the stove, in an agate dish, salt and cover
82
THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE
83
with milk. Let them cook fifteen or twenty minutes,
then thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, stirred
with half a cupful of water; put in the butter and
serve hot.
Scalloped Potatoes
Butter a baking-dish, pare and slice potatoes
in small pieces. Put into the dish with salt, pepper
and a little butter. Fill the dish with milk, sprinkle
over the top cracker or bread crumbs, and cheese, if
you like it. Bake in the oven for an hour and a half
or two hours.
Baked Tomatoes
6 Tomatoes
A few Stalks of Celery
2 Cupfuls of Bread Crumbs
Hearts
Small piece of Onion
Salt and Pepper to taste
Cut off a small piece of each tomato and scoop
out the inside. Mix this with two cupfuls, or the
same amount of bread crumbs, the chopped onion,
salt and pepper. Then fill the tomatoes with this
mixture, putting small pieces of butter over the top.
Place these in a pan in which is a very little water, to
prevent sticking, and bake in a hot oven from twenty
minutes to half an hour.
Fried Tomatoes
Pare and slice (not very thin), dip into flour and
fry on a griddle in hot fat.
106
CORN BREAD
1/2 cup corn-meal
1/2 cake compressed yeast,
1 3/4 cups water
softened in 1/3 cup warm
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
water
2 tablespoons sugar
2 3/4 to 3 cups flour (enough
1 tablespoon shortening
to make medium dough)
Cook the corn-meal in the water ten minutes; add salt, sugar
and fat to the mush. Cool until lukewarm, stirring occasionally
to prevent a film. When cool add the yeast and beat well.
Add the flour and mix well. Knead, using as little flour on
the boardPART V.
Cakes.
No. 142.
SPONGE CAKE (A).
1 lb. sugar
1 1b. flour
12 eggs
Lemon flavor
Beat the eggs and sugar over a slow fire, or
place the vessel in a pan half filled with boiling
water. When firm and blood warm, remove from the
fire or water; beat until cold and very light, then
add the flavor and the flour very carefully. Fill
in paper lined pans or molds, and bake at about
360 degrees.
No. 143.
SPONGE CAKE (B).
1 lb. sugar
1 lb. flour
20 eggs
Lemon or vanilla flavor
Separate the eggs, place the yolks and the sugar
in a bowl and stir till very light and spongy. Beat
up the whites, then add 1/4 part of the whites into
the sponge; mix in the flour very lightly, then the
flavor and the rest of the whites.
No. 144.
SPONGE CAKE (C) VIENNA.
1 lb. sugar
28 egrgs
1 lb. flour
Vanilla flavor
Beat up the whites of the eggs very stiff, mix
in the sugar gradually, add the flavor, the yolks;
then incorporate the flour. Bake in a hot oven until
raised; then open the dampers.
34
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
No. 145.
JELLY ROLLS.
Sponge Cake mixture (B) makes a fine jelly
roll. Line ordinary baking sheets with paper and
spread the mixture on it about 1/4 inch thick. Bake
in a hot oven. When done turn the cake on a sheet
of paper well dusted with sugar; remove the paper
lining from the cake, spread jelly all over, and roll
up to form a roll; coat with water ieing and bestrew
with roasted and chopped almonds.
No. 146.
JELLY ROLLS (CHEAPER).
1 pt. of yolk of eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. sugar.
1 pt. milk.
2 lbs. flour.
2 OZS. baking powder.
Mix the sugar with the yolks; add the milk, and
sift the flour with the baking powder; mix all well
together finish the same as No. 145.
No. 147.
POUND CAKE,
1 lb. sugar.
1 lb. butter.
1 lb. flour.
12 eggs.
Vanilla flavor.
Place the sugar and the butter in a bowl and
rub with the hands until very creamy. Add the
eggs, one by one, and then the flavoring. At last
the flour; mix thoroughly. Bake in a slow oven for
about 1 1/2 hours; less if divided in two.
No. 148.
POUND RAISIN CAKE.
Add to Pound Cake mixture, No. 147, 1 1/2 lbs.
Sultan raisins, dusted with flour.
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
35
No. 149.
CURRANT CAKE.
Same as Raisin Cake, only substitute currants
for raisins.
No. 150.
LADY CAKE.
2 lbs. sugar.
2 1/4 lbs. flour.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
15 whites of egggs.
Almond flavor.
Cream the sugar with the butter; add the flavor-
ing; half of the beaten whites of eggss; then incor-
porate the flour and the rest of the whites. Bake
in a moderate oven.
Nc. 151.
WHITE CAKE.
4 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. whites of egggs.
1344 lbs. butter.
1 qt. of milk.
4 1/2 lbs. flour.
21%, OZS. baking powder.
Vanilla flavoring.
Cream the sugar with the butter add the flavor-
ing and the whites of egggs gradually then the milk,
and at last sift in the flour with the baking powder.
No. 152.
WHITE CITRON cake.
Add to White Cake mixture 2 1/2 lbs. chopped
citron.
No. 153.
WHITE RAISIN CAKE.
Same as White Citron Cake, only substitute 3 1/2
lbs. of Sultana raisins for citron.
No. 154.
SILVER CAKE.
1 1/2 lbs. sugar.
1 pint milk.
1 1b. butter.
1 oz. cream of tartar.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 OZ, soda.
20 whites of egggs.
Lemon flavor.
36
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
Dissolve the soda in the milk; cream the sugar
and the butter; add the eggs gradually; then the
flavoring and the milk, and at last sift in the flour,
with the cream of tartar.
No. 155.
DEVIL'S FOOD,
2 lbs. sugar.
4 OZS. chocolate.
1 lb. butter.
1 oz. cream of tartar.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 oz. soda.
1 pt. milk.
Vanilla flavor.
Cream the sugar with the butter; work in the
eggs; gradually mix in the chocolate (melted) and
the flavoring; dissolve the soda in milk and add to
the mixture; sift the flour with the cream of tartar
and mix thoroughly. Fill in Devil's Food molds and
bake in a moderate oven ; coat with chocolate ieing.
No. 156.
GOLD CAKE.
1 1/2 lbs. sugar.
12 eggs.
1 lb. butter.
1 pt. milk.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
2 oz. baking powder.
Flavor with lemon and mace.
Cream the butter and sugar in a bowl; work in
the eggs gradually; add the milk and sift in the flour
with the baking powder; mix well and fill in paper
lined square pans.
No. 157.
WINE CAKE (A).
3 lbs. sugar.
20 eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
4 1/2 lbs. flour.
3 OZS. baking powder.
Lemon or vanilla flavoring.
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
37
To be prepared precisely as for Gold Cake. Fill
in paper lined Wine Cake molds, and bake in a mod-
erate oven.
No. 158.
WINE CAKE (B).
2 1/2 lbs. sugar.
15 eggs.
1 1/4 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
4 lbs. flour.
3 OZ. baking powder.
Prepare and bake the same as Wine Cake (A).
No. 159.
LAYER CAKE.
1 1/4 lbs. sugar.
1 1/2 pt. milk.
12 OZS. butter.
1/2 oz. soda.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
1 oz. cream of tartar.
12 eggs.
Lemon and mace flavoring.
Dissolve the soda with the milk; sift the cream
of tartar with the flour; prepare the same as Gold
Cake, and fill in Layer Cake plates; spread out with
a ballot knife and bake in a hot oven.
No. 160.
JELLY LAYER cake,
2 1/2 lbs. sugar.
12 eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
1 1/2 pts. milk.
3 1/2 lbs. flour.
2 OZS. baking powder
Lemon or Vanilla flavoring.
Mix the same as Layer Cake No. 159 spread on
a baking sheet lined with paper, and bake; when
done remove the paper and spread jelly over two;
place the third layer on top and cover with water
ieing.
No. 161
SAND cake.
To be prepared the same as Sponge Cake (A)
No. 142, only take half corn starch and half flour
and incorporate 7 OZS. of melted butter; finish then
same as sponge cake, and coat with vanilla icing.
38
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
No. 162.
MARBLE CAKE.
Take Gold Cake mixture No. 156; color one cup
of the mixture red (using cochineal or carmine), one
cup with chocolate and leave the rest plain. Line a
pan with paper and fill part of the plain mixture into
it, spread all over and make 5 furroughs across it;
fill the red and the brown mixture into the fur-
roughs, then spread the rest of the plain mixture
over and draw with a knife through the whole in
the opposite direction from the furroughs. Bake
for about one hour. When done, ice over with van-
illa water lieing and lay some strips of red and choc-
olate ieing over: draw with a fork from one end to
the other; let dry, and cut in squares.
No. 163.
PHILADELPHIA POUND CAKE.
Cream the sugar and butter; add the flavor; mix
in the eggs gradually; add the milk and sift the
flour with the baking powder; mix well; bake in a
wooden frame or in paper lined Wine Cake molds.
Ingredients are:
5 lbs. sugar.
30 eggs.
8 lbs. butter.
1 1/2 pts. milk.
5 1/2 lbs. flour.
1/2 oz. baking powder.
Vanilla and mace flavoring.
No. 164.
MAGNOLIA CAKES.
3 lbs. sugar.
1 qt. whites of eggs.
2 lbs. butter.
2 1/2 lbs. flour.
Lemon flavor.
Mix the same as for Lady Cake; fill in diamond-
shaped molds, and bake; when done, ice with vanilla
ieing and garnish with cherry and angelica.
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
39
No. 165.
WEDDING CAKE.
1 lb. sugar.
1 1/2 lbs. Sultana raisins.
1 lb. butter.
1 1/2 lbs. currants.
1 1/2 lbs. flour.
1 lb. chopped citron.
1/2 teaspoon bak. pow. 1 gill brandy.
12 egggs.
Almond flavor.
Cream the sugar and butter; add the flavor;
work in the egrgs gradually, then the brandy and sift
in the flour with the baking powder; mix all together,
and at last work in the fruit, dusted with flour. Bake
in a slow oven for about 3 hrs. or more.
No. 166.
FRUIT CAKE.
Take Pound Cake mixture No. 147; add 2 gills
molasses, one oz. cinnamon, a pinch each of nutmeg,
allspice, cloves and mace, and a little almond flavor;
then work in the amount of fruit as for Wedding
Cake, and bake the same.
No. 167.
FRUIT CAKE (CHEAPER).
4 lbs. sugar.
4 OZS. nutmeg.
4 lbs. butter.
4 OZS. cloves.
3 pts. eggs.
4 OZS. allspice.
3 pts. molasses.
3 OZS. mace.
3 pts. milk.
6 OZS. cinnamon.
8 lbs. flour.
10 lbs. raisins.
5 lbs. chopped citron.
10 lbs. currants.
Mix the butter and the sugar until creamy; add
the eggs gradually, then add the spices and the
fluids ; mix in the flour and the fruit; fill in paper
lined molds, and bake in a slow oven for about 3
hours.
40
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
No. 168.
ANGEL FOOD.
1 qt. whites of eggs.
10 OZS. flour.
1 1/2 lbs. sugar.
4 OZS. corn starch.
1 teaspoon cream tar.
Vanilla flavor.
Sift together several times the flour, corn starch,
cream of tartar, and half of the sugar; beat the eggs
in a vesel until firm, then stir in the rest of the sugar,
a handful at the time; add the flavor and mix in the
flour, lightly but thoroughly; fill in wetted Angel
Food molds, and bake for about 30 minutes. When
done turn the molds upside down and let cool. Coat
with vanilla ieing.
No. 169.
SUNSHINE,
2 lbs. sugar.
2 1/1 lbs. flour.
1 lbs. butter.
1 1/2 OZS. baking powder.
20 eggs.
Vanilla flavor.
Separate the eggs, then work the sugar and the
butter in a bowl; work in the yolks of the eggs grad-
ually; then add the flavor, beat in a vessel the
whites of eggs, and incorporate together with the
flour; bake in molds lined with paper.
No. 170.
CHOCOLATE BISCUIT TART.
1/2 lb. sugar.
10 eggs.
1/2 lb. flour.
4 ozs. chocolate.
Dissolve the chocolate in a cupfull of hot water;
separate the eggs; beat the yolks with the sugar
until spongy; add the chocolate; beat the whites of
the eggs; then incorporate the flour and the whites.
Bake in a ring placed on a paper lined baking sheet
and bake. Coat with chocolate ieing and ornament
with royal icing.
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
41
No. 171.
WALNUT TART.
3/4 lbs. sugar.
12 eggs.
3/4 lbs. flour.
4 OZS. blanched almonds.
Pound the almonds with 2 of the eggs in a mor-
tar; beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar until
spongy : then add the almonds, flour, and last mix
in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in rings as de-
scribed in No. 170, only use two instead of one. When
done, fill in some whipped cream and chopped al-
monds, between the layers; coat with vanilla ieing;
place half walnuts around the edge, then ornament
with royal icing and garnish with candied fruit.
No. 172.
CUP CAKES.
2 1/2 lbs. sugar.
10 eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
3 pts. milk.
4 1/2 lbs. flour.
3 OZS. Baking powder.
Flavor with lemon and mace.
Cream the sugar and the butter; work in the
eggs, one at a time; then the flavor, milk, and sift
in the flour with the baking powder; mix well, and
fill in greased Cup Cake molds. Strew a few cur-
rants or some cocoanut over.
No. 173.
DROP CAKES.
2 1/2 lbs. sugar.
16 eggs.
1 1/2 lbs. butter.
1 qt. milk.
5 lbs. flour.
2 OZS. soda.
Vanilla flavoring.
Prepare same as Cup Cake mixture; drop on
greased and floured baking sheets; place a strip of
citron on top and bake in a brisk oven.
No. 174.
VANILLA DIAMONDS.
Take Layer Cake mixture No. 159; spread out
56
PEERLESS PASTRY BOOK.
No. 230.
LADY FINGERS (A).
1 lb. sugar.
8 whites of eggs.
1 lb. flour.
9 yolks of eggs.
Vanilla flavor.
Beat eggs and sugar over a slow fire until blood
warm, then remove from the fire and keep on beat-
ing
until
cold
and
very
spongy,
then
add
the
flavor
and the flour, mixing very gently : lay out on paper
sheets in oblongs about 3 inches long, using a bag
and a lady finger tub; dust over with powdered
sugar, then lift up the paper on one side and shake
off
the
loose
sugar;
place
upon
a
baking
sheet
and
bake in a brisk oven. When done and cool, wet the
back side of the paper and take off ; stick two to-
gether.
No. 231.
LADY FINGERS (B).
1 lb. sugar.
1 lb. flour.
18 eggs.
Flavor.
Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth,
then mix in the sugar, the yolks and the flavor, and
last the flour; mix very gently; then lay out and
bake as lady fingers (A).
No. 232.
MIIRBTEIG CAKES.
2 lbs. flour.
14 oz. sugar.
1 1/4 lbs. butter.
Cinnamon.
Lemon flavor.
Sift the flour into a bowl, add the sugar, cinna-
mon and the butter, mix all together by rubbing the
ingredients
between
the
hands,
then
add
the
eggs
and
work
into
a
dough.
Roll
out
with
a
rolling
pin
and cut with a small fancy cutter, such as stars, dia-
monds and half moons or any shape desired.
un
Soups
Cheese Soup
4 tablespoonfuls grated
2 cupfuls cream
cheese
2 eggs
3 quarts clear soup stock
Salt, pepper, and paprika
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
to taste
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Finely grated cheese
-
Put flour into double boiler, add gradually cream, Crisco, 4 table-
spoonfuls of grated cheese and paprika to taste, stir over fire till a smooth
paste. Break in eggs, mix well, cook two minutes longer and allow to cool.
Roll into balls, when they are all formed, drop into boiling water and cook
gently five minutes. Drain and put into soup tureen. Pour over boiling
stock and serve with dish of finely grated cheese.
Cream of Tomato Soup
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1 teaspoonful celery salt
1 1/2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Salt, pepper, and paprika to
1 cupful milk
taste
2 1/2 cupfuls strained tomato
Pinch baking soda
juice
1 tablespoonful tomato catsup
Blend Crisco and flour together in saucepan over fire, add milk and
bring to boiling point. Heat tomato juice, tomato catsup and add soda
and seasonings. Just before serving add Crisco mixture to tomato juice
and stir till boiling. Serve hot. Another method, is to cook 1 quart can
of tomatoes with 1 quart of water twenty minutes, then rub through
sieve. Blend 2 tablespoonfuls Crisco with 2 tablespoonfuls flour, add 1
tablespoonful sugar, salt, pepper, and red pepper to taste, and 1 table-
spoonful tomato catsup. Add pinch of baking soda to tomatoes, then add
gradually to Crisco mixture. Just bring to boiling point and serve with
tablespoonful whipped cream on top of each plate.
Fish Soup
1 1b. cod, or other white fish
3 parsley sprigs
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 blade mace
1 quart white stock, or half
2 egg yolks
milk and half water
1/2 cupful cream
1 small carrot
1 lemon
1 small onion
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1 stalk celery
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
Dry toast
Wash and dry fish and cut into small pieces. Put into saucepan with
stock, vegetables cut in small pieces, parsley and mace. Let these simmer
for half hour, then strain off liquid. Melt Crisco in pan, stir in flour,
then add fish liquor and stir till it boils. Draw it to the side of fire and let
cool slightly. Beat yolks of leggs with cream, and, when soup has cooled,
strain them in. Reheat soup without boiling it, to cook eggs. Season,
and add few drops lemon juice and chopped parsley. Serve with small
pieces of dry toast.
48
Soups
Lentil Soup
1 cupful lentils
2 stalks celery
2 cupfuls milk
1 tablespoonful flour
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 bay leaf
3 pints stock or water
Salt and pepper to taste
1 onion
1/4 cupful cream
1 carrot
Croutons
Wash lentils; soak twenty-four hours; drain well. Cut onion, carrot
and celery into small pieces, then put them into a saucepan with Crisco,
cover, and cook gently for fifteen minutes. Add stock and simmer 2 hours,
then rub through sieve. Return to pan, add milk, seasonings, and bring
to boil. Moisten flour with 1/2 cupful milk or stock, add it to soup and
simmer five minutes. Season to taste and add cream. Serve with croutons
of fried or toasted bread.
Lentils are a small leguminous seed, not so generally known as beans,
but an excellent nitrogenous food, containing about 25 per cent. protein,
more than 50 per cent. starch, with over 2 per cent. fat. They are not
used as much as they ought to be.
Croutons are made by cutting bread into tiny cubes and browning
through and through in hot oven or putting into a frying pan with 2 table-
spoonfuls Crisco and browning well. If latter is used great care must be
used as the croutons will brown easily.
Lobster Bisque
1 can lobster
1/4 cupful Crisco
1 cupful breadcrumbs
Salt, pepper, red pepper, and
1 quart milk
grated nutmeg to taste
1 quart water
Squares fried bread
1 tablespoonful flour
Thin lemon slices
Open a can of lobster of good quality, take out best pieces and cut
into small squares without tearing; put them aside. Place remains of
lobster in mortar or basin, and pound quite smooth with Crisco. Soak
bread in water, adding flour, and seasonings, and put all on fire in soup
pot with pounded lobster and Crisco; stir till it boils, and boil for fifteen
minutes; then pass it through sieve, add milk and pieces of lobster, and
return to the pot till it boils up. Serve with small squares of fried bread,
and send thin slices of lemon to table with it. This is an excellent soup,
and can of course be made with fresh lobster.
Norfolk Puree
1/2 cupful barley, pearl
4 tablespoonfuls cooked carrot
1 quart water
balls
3 pints white stock
4 tablespoonfuls cooked peas
1/2 cupful cream
Salt, pepper, and paprika to
1 yolk of egg
taste
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Diced toast or fried bread
Put barley into saucepan of cold water, bring to boil, let boil five min-
utes, then drain off water; this removes the slightly bitter taste. Now
put barley into saucepan with Crisco and water, let these boil gently until
49
Soups
barley is tender, drain, and rub through sieve. Add stock to this puree
and let simmer ten minutes. Beat yolk of egg with cream and when soup
has cooled slightly, strain them in. Stir soup over fire a few minutes to
reheat; but be careful that it does not boil, or it will curdle. Season care-
fully, add carrot balls and peas, which should first be heated in a little
stock or water. Serve with dice of toast or fried bread. If you do not
possess a round vegetable cutter, cut the carrot into small dice. This is a
particularly nourishing soup. If you prefer a slightly cheaper variety,
use milk instead of cream, and if you have no white stock use milk and
water in equal proportions instead, and cook a carrot, turnip and onion
in milk and water for twenty or thirty minutes.
Soup Verte
4 tablespoonfuls flour
1 bunch parsley
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful sugar
2 quarts stock
2 egg yolks
1 1b. spinach
1 lemon
Salt and pepper to taste
Put stock into saucepan; add spinach and parsley, picked and thor-
oughly washed; let all boil twenty minutes; strain, rubbing puree through
sieve. Return it all to saucepan, add Crisco and flour mixed together
with cupful of water, sugar and strained juice of a quarter of lemon. Let
boil five minutes. Beat yolks of eggs with 3/4 cupful water, add them
gradually to soup off fire, and stir near fire until cooked. Soup must not
boil after yolks are added. Season with salt and pepper and serve.
Thick Rice Soup
2 pints water or stock
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Salt and pepper to taste
1 cupful rice
2 small onions
1 cupful canned tomatoes,
or 4 fresh ones
Wash and drain rice. Heat Crisco in saucepan, add rice and stir
constantly until a golden brown. Now add water or stock, onions and
tomatoes cut in small pieces, and seasonings. Cook slowly for one hour.
50
m
Fish
To bone fish. The process of boning is known as filleting
and is generally done by the fish dealer, but when this is not
the case the single rule for boning must be strictly adhered to
in order to keep the knife on the bone-lifting the flesh with
the left hand while the knife slips in between the bone and the
flesh. Flat fish are divided down the middle of each side well
into the bone, and the boning is begun at either side of the
incision. Round fish are cut down the back, the flesh is laid
open from one side and the bone is removed from the other.
Occasionally round fish are boned readily, the whole fish
minus the bones being returned to its proper shape, as in
anchovies, sardines, herrings, haddocks, etc., in this case
the fish would be split down the front, not the back, and
stitched together after boning.
Fish stock is made from the bones, skin and trimmings
of white fish. These are broken small and generally flavored
with onion, parsley, herbs, and seasonings. The proportion
of water used is rather larger, as the flavor is much stronger
and also more easily extracted than from meat.
Baked Halibut
2 lbs. halibut
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 cupful tomatoes
3/4 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/8 teaspoonful pepper
Clean fish, season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, place in
Criscoed baking pan, pour over tomatoes, and dot with Crisco. Bake in a
moderate oven, basting often.
Baked Salmon with Colbert Sauce
1 slice salmon, 1 1/2 lbs. in weight
For Sauce
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful chopped
2 tablespoonfuls flour
parsley
1 teaspoonful lemon juice
1 tablespoonful tarragon
3 anchovies
vinegar
1 tablespoonful chopped
1 chopped shallot, gherkin
parsley
and anchovy
Pepper to taste
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
2 cupfuls fish stock, or milk
to taste
and water
For fish. Mix Crisco with shallot, gherkin, anchovy, and seasonings,
lay salmon in this mixture and let it "marinade," as it is called, for one
hour. At the end of that time lift it out; do not shake off any ingredients
that are sticking to it. Now lay it in a well Criscoed fireproof dish, cover
it with a greased paper, and bake in moderate oven for thirty minutes.
For sauce. Melt Crisco in small saucepan, stir in flour, add fish
stock and stir until it boils and thickens. Rub anchovies through fine
sieve, and add with seasonings. Serve in hot tureen with fish.
52
Fish
Baked Shad
1 shad weighing 4 lbs.
1 cupful breadcrumbs
1/4 lb. mushrooms
1 egg
1/2 cupful Crisco
Salt and white pepper
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
Salt pork
parsley
1 cupful cream
2 tablespoonfuls chopped chives
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
Clean, wipe and dry the shad. Melt Crisco, add breadcrumbs,
chopped mushrooms, parsley, chives, egg well beaten, salt and pepper.
Stuff fish with this forcemeat, then lay it in a greased pan, put thin strips
of salt pork over it and bake in hot oven for forty minutes. Lay the fish
on a hot platter. Pour cream into baking pan, add cornstarch and stir
till boiling. Serve with the fish.
Cassolettes of Fish
1/2 lb. cold cooked fish or
4 tablespoonfuls flour
shrimps
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
1/2 cupful milk
to taste
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful lemon juice
1/2 cupful water
2 lbs. cooked potatoes
2 tablespoonfuls cream
2 eggs
Rub potatoes through a sieve, add little salt and pepper, 1 egg well
beaten, and 2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco and mix well. Roll out on
floured baking board to 114 inches in thickness. Cut into small rounds,
brush over with remaining egg well beaten, toss in fine breadcrumbs,
mark the center slightly with a smaller round cutter. Fry to golden color
in hot Crisco. Remove lids, carefully remove bulk of potatoes from in-
side, fill with mixture, replace lids, and serve hot. For mixture, blend 2
tablespoonfuls of the Crisco with flour in a saucepan over the fire, add milk,
water and seasonings and cook for a few minutes. Put in flaked fish and
make hot. Add cream last. 1/2 teaspoonful of anchovy extract may be
added if liked.
Sufficient for ten cassolettes.
Dressed Crab
1 good sized heavy crab
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar
6 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs
Crisp lettuce leaves
3 tablespoonfuls olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste
If possible choose a crab with large claws. Boil crab in boiling salted
water for thirty minutes, take up and break off large and small claws.
Lay crab on its back, pull back the flap under its body, pull it right out
and commence to remove flesh from shell. Take care that the little bag
near head, usually full of sand, is taken out. Throw away all bone and
finny pieces. The flesh is of two kinds, some firm and white, rest soft and
dark. Separate former into little shreds with a fork, also the white meat
from claws, which must be cracked in order to obtain it. Mix dark soft
substance with crumbs, add oil, vinegar, and seasonings to taste. Toss
53
my
Fish
shredded white meat also in a little seasoning, but keep the two kinds
separate. When shell is empty wash and dry well. Fill shell with the
two mixtures, arranging them alternately, so that they appear in dark
and white stripes. Have it heaped a little higher in center. Decorate
meat with lines of finely chopped parsley, and force the Crisco round edge
with a forcing bag and tube. Place crab on some crisp lettuce leaves.
Arrange some of the small claws in a circle' round shell.
Curried Cod
2 lbs. cod
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/4 cupful Crisco
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
2 cupfuls white stock
to taste
1 tablespoonful flour
2 cupfuls plain boiled rice
2 teaspoonfuls curry powder
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
1 medium-sized onion
cocoanut
Wash and dry the cod, and cut into pieces two inches square. Melt
Crisco in a saucepan, fry cod lightly in it, then take out and set aside.
Add sliced onion, flour, and curry powder to the Crisco in saucepan and
fry ten minutes, stirring continuously to prevent onion becoming too
brown, then stir in the stock and cocoanut, stir until it boils, and after-
wards simmer for twenty minutes. Strain and return to saucepan, add
lemon juice and seasonings to taste, bring nearly to boil, then put in fish,
cover closely, and cook slowly for half hour. An occasional stir must be
given to prevent the fish sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. Turn
out on hot platter and serve with rice. The remains of cold fish may be
used, in which case the preliminary frying may be omitted.
Flounder a la Creme
1 flounder about 2 lbs.
1 blade mace
2 cupfuls milk
6 whole white peppers
1 tablespoonful cream
4 tablespoonfuls flour
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Lemon juice
Salt and pepper to taste
Skin flounder, and take fillets off neatly by sharply cutting down
the middle of back, and pressing the knife close to the bones. This will
produce 4 long fillets. Cut each of them in half lengthways, and tie up in
pretty knot; sprinkle a little salt over and put them aside. Wash skin,
bones of fish, put them into a small saucepan with milk, mace, and whole
peppers and simmer for half hour; strain milk into clean saucepan; add
fillets, and allow to simmer for ten minutes. Lift them out, and add to
milk the Crisco and flour beaten together; stir till it becomes quite smooth;
add salt, pepper and lemon juice to taste, and cream; put in fillets gently
to warm through; dish neatly and pour the sauce over them. Serve very
hot.
54
Fish
Flounder a la Turque
For Fish
For Sauce
1 large flounder
1/2 lemon
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
1 egg
3 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs
1/2 cupful melted Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 yolk of egg
1/2 teaspoonful powdered herbs
1/2 teaspoonful mustard
1 pinch powdered mace
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
1 pinch red pepper
to taste
1 tablespoonful vinegar
1/2 cupful picked shrimps
2 chopped gherkins
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
For fish. Wash dry and trim flounder. On one side make cut down
center from near head to near tail and raise flesh from the bones. Make a
stuffing with Crisco, parsley, breadcrumbs, herbs, shrimps, lemon juice,
seasonings, and nearly all the egg, and insert under the fillets of the flounder,
leaving the center open. Dot with Crisco. Brush fish over with remaining
egg, sprinkle with browned breadcrumbs, put on Criscoed baking tin,
and bake thirty minutes. Serve with sauce.
For sauce. Put egg yolk into a bowl, and, with a wooden spoon stir a
little; then add by degrees melted Crisco, stirring constantly; then add
seasonings, vinegar, gherkins and parsley.
Fish Pudding
For Pudding
(Kate B. Vaughn)
For Sauce
2 lbs. cooked fish
3 tablespoonfuls flour
1 cupful milk
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful flour
1 slice carrot
-
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1 slice onion
2 eggs
1 slice celery
Salt and pepper to taste
1 blade of mace
1/4 teaspoonful onion juice
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoonful Worcester-
6 whole peppers
shire sauce
1 sprig of parsley
Cream sauce
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful thick cream
For pudding. Boil fish in boiling salted water till done. Shred or break
in small pieces, and free from skin and bone. Blend Crisco and flour in a
saucepan over fire, add milk and stir till boiling, remove from fire, add eggs
well beaten, seasonings, and mix well. Turn into Criscoed fireproof dish,
cover with greased paper, set in warm water, and bake in moderate oven
for thirty minutes. Serve with the sauce, potato balls, and chopped
parsley.
For sauce. Blend Crisco and flour in a pan over fire, add vegetables,
mace, bay leaf, peppers, parsley, milk, and simmer for thirty minutes.
Strain, return to pan, add salt, allow to heat, then add cream and it is
ready to serve.
55
Fish
Fried Fish
Fish
Salt and pepper to taste
Crisco
Crumbs
1 egg
Sauce
Clean fish, season with salt and pepper. Dip in crumbs, brush over
with beaten egg, and crumb again. Fry in deep Crisco and drain on brown
paper.
Sauce. Blend 1 1/2 tablespoonfuls Crisco with 1 tablespoonful flour
in saucepan over fire, add 1 cupful of milk or cream and bring to boil,
cook for a few minutes over hot water. Cool and add 2 chopped green
bell peppers and 6 medium-sized chopped sour pickles.
Fried Lobster with Horseradish Sauce
1 boiled lobster
1 cupful thick cream
Crisco for frying
Salt and paprika to taste
1 egg
2 tablespoonfuls grated
Breadcrumbs
horseradish
Cut lobster meat into neat pieces, dip in beaten egg, toss in bread-
crumbs and fry in hot Crisco to brown well. Whip up cream, season it
well with salt and paprika and stir in horseradish; heap this sauce in the
center of the serving dish and arrange the pieces of fried lobster round
it.
Serve hot.
Gateau of Fish
For Fish
1 1/2 lbs. cooked white fish
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful anchovy paste
1/2 cupful breadcrumbs
or extract
1/2 cupful milk
Salt and pepper to taste
2 eggs
Lemon slices
Dutch or oyster sauce
For Sauce
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1 teaspoonful lemon juice
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
1 cupful milk
to taste
1/2 cupful oyster liquor
2 hard-cooked eggs
1 dozen small oysters
For fish. Cook fish; remove skin and bone, chop it, then put it in a
basin, add breadcrumbs, parsley, seasonings, milk, eggs well beaten, and
melted Crisco. Mix well, turn into a Criscoed mold, cover with greased
paper and steam one hour. Serve with sauce poured over, and dish gar-
nished with lemon slices.
For sauce. Blend Crisco and flour in pan over fire, stir in milk, oyster
liquor, stir till it boils for eight minutes, then add seasonings. Boil one
minute, add eggs chopped, and oysters. Mix and serve.
56
Fish
Oyster Shortcake
2 cupfuls flour
1 quart oysters
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch
3/4 cupful milk
1/4 cupful cream
Salt and pepper to taste
Mix flour, baking powder and 1/2 teaspoonful salt, then sift twice,
work in Crisco with tips of fingers, add milk gradually. The dough should
be just soft enough to handle. Toss on floured baking board, divide into
two parts, pat lightly and roll out. Place in two shallow Criscoed cake
tins and bake in quick oven fifteen minutes. Spread them with butter.
Moisten cornstarch with cream, put into pan with oysters and seasonings
and make very hot. Allow to cook a few minutes then pour half over one
crust, place other crust on top and pour over rest of oysters. Serve at
once.
Sufficient for one large shortcake.
Salmon Mold
1 can salmon
3 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful Worcestershire
1/2 cupful rolled crackers
sauce
Salt and pepper to taste
Sauce
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1 cupful milk
1 tablespoonful flour
Salt and pepper to taste
1 egg
Parsley
For the mold. Remove oil, skin and bone from the salmon. Rub
salmon smooth, add eggs well beaten, crackers, and seasonings. Turn into
a Criscoed mold, and steam for one hour. Turn out and serve with sauce.
For sauce. Blend Crisco and flour in a saucepan over fire, add milk,
and stir and boil for five minutes. Add egg well beaten, and seasonings,
pour at once over salmon. Garnish with parsley.
Sufficient for one small loaf.
57
my
Meats
Cover pan and let contents simmer very gently forty-five minutes. Arrange
collops on hot platter with border of sippets of toast or croutons, or border
of hot mashed potatoes, or plain boiled rice.
Braised Loin of Mutton
3 lbs. loin mutton
1 turnip
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 carrot
1 celery stalk
3 cloves
1/2 teaspoonful whole white peppers
2 sprigs parsley
1 bunch sweet herbs
4 tablespoonfuls flour
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
12 button mushrooms
to taste
1 onion
Remove bone from mutton, rub with a little salt, pepper and red
pepper mixed together; roll up and tie in neat roll with tape; cut up
celery, onion, carrot and turnip, and lay them at bottom of saucepan with
herbs and parsley; lay mutton on top of these, and pour enough boiling
water to three parts cover it, and simmer slowly two hours; lift mutton
into roasting tin with a few tablespoonfuls of the gravy; set in hot oven
until brown; strain gravy and skim off fat, melt Crisco in saucepan, add
flour, then add gravy gradually, seasoning of salt and pepper, mushrooms,
and boil eight minutes. Set mutton on hot platter with mushrooms
round, and gravy strained over.
Chicken a la Tartare
1 young chicken
Breadcrumbs
1 egg
Salt and pepper to taste
3/4 cupful Crisco
Mixed pickles
Tartare sauce
Singe, empty, and split chicken in half; take breastbone out and
sprinkle salt and pepper over. Melt 1/2 cupful Crisco in frying pan and
fry chicken half hour, turning it now and then. Remove from pan and
place between two dishes with heavy weight on top, till it is nearly cold.
Then dip in egg beaten up, and roll in breadcrumbs. Melt remaining
Crisco, then sprinkle it all over chicken; roll in breadcrumbs once more.
Fry in hot Crisco to golden color. Serve at once with a garnish of chopped
pickles, and tartare sauce.
Chicken en Casserole
1 tender chicken for roasting
1 cupful hot sweet cream
1/2 cupful Crisco
2 cupfuls chopped mushrooms
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoonful chopped
1 pint hot water
parsley
Clean chicken, split down back, and lay breast upward, in casserole.
Spread Crisco over breast, dust with salt and pepper, add hot water,
cover closely and cook in hot oven one hour. When nearly tender, put in
the cream, mushrooms, and parsley; cover again and cook twenty minutes
60
Meats
cold water and press between two plates till cold. Dry, remove skin,
cut in slices, coat with beaten egg and toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in
hot Crisco to a golden brown. Serve' round peas or new potatoes, with
rich brown gravy.
For those whose digestions are at fault, sweetbreads ought to be eaten
as a daily ration if the pocketbook will afford it. For this special part of
the animal's anatomy is that one of all the viscera whose mission is to help
digestion. It is of the very pancreas itself, that stomach gland of mar-
velously involved structure which elaborates the powerful pancreatic
juice. It is alkaline in nature, able to digest starches, fats, and most of
what escapes digestion in the stomach proper. It received its name from a
fancied resemblance in its substance and formation to the rising lumps
of dough destined for bread.
Kidney Omelet
4 kidneys
Salt and pepper to taste
6 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
6 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls cream
Melt 2 tablespoonfuls Crisco in frying pan. Skin kidneys and cut into
small dice and toss them into hot Crisco three minutes. Whisk whites
of eggs to stiff froth, then add yolks, seasonings, parsley, and cream, then
add kidney. Make remaining Crisco hot in omelet pan or frying pan,
pour in omelet and fry over clear fire six minutes. When the edges are
set, fold edges over so that omelet assumes an oval shape; be careful that
it is not done too much; to brown the top, hold pan before fire, or put it in
oven; never turn an omelet in the pan. Slip it carefully on a hot dish
and serve the instant it comes from the fire.
Macaroni and Round Steak
1/2 package macaroni
Salt and pepper to taste
1/2 can tomatoes
1/2 cupful grated cheese
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 lb. round steak
2 onions
1/2 cupful breadcrumbs
Break macaroni into inch lengths and add it with 1 tablespoonful of
the Crisco to plenty of boiling water and boil twenty minutes, then drain.
Put steak and onions through a food chopper. Put macaroni into Criscoed
fireproof dish, then put in meat and onions, add seasonings, tomatoes,
cheese, breadcrumbs, and remainder of Crisco melted. Bake in moderate
oven one hour.
Meat Cakes
1 lb. round steak
1/4 lb. grated cheese
3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
2 cupfuls breadcrumbs
3 small onions
Salt, pepper, and paprika
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
to taste
2 eggs
Tomato sauce
63
mi
Meats
For Sauce
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 can or 1/2 lb. fresh tomatoes
1 carrot
1 tablespoonful tomato catsup
1 turnip
1 bunch sweet herbs
2 onions
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
3 tablespoonfuls flour
to taste
2 cupfuls stock
1 blade mace
1 bay leaf
For meat cakes. Grind steak and onions together, add Crisco, cheese,
parsley, crumbs, seasonings, and eggs lightly beaten. Mix together;
form into small cakes, toss in flour and fry in hot Crisco. Serve hot with
tomato sauce.
For sauce. Slice vegetables, fry in Crisco ten minutes; then add flour,
stock, mace, bay leaf, tomatoes, catsup, and herbs. Stir till they boil,
then simmer gently forty-five minutes. Rub through sieve, add seasonings
and use.
Sufficient for twelve meat cakes.
Roast Turkey
For Stuffing
1 quart fine breadcrumbs
1/4 teaspoonful powdered thyme
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
1 egg
2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion
1 cupful country sausage
1 lemon
A little warm water
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
1 turkey
Salt pork
Mix sausage with breadcrumbs, add egg well beaten, Crisco, season-
ings, grated rind and strained juice of lemon, and moisten with a little
hot water. Be careful not to make stuffing too moist. See that turkey is
well plucked, singed and wiped; fold over pinions, and pass skewer through
them, thick part of legs and body, catching leg and pinning it on other side;
now secure bottom part of leg, which should have feet cut off half way to
first joint, fill breast of bird with stuffing and skewer down skin. Place 2
strips salt pork in bottom of roasting pan, lay in turkey and place several
strips salt pork over breast and sprinkle lightly with flour. Roast in hot
oven, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste occasionally with
melted Crisco. Serve hot decorated with cooked onions, celery tips,
cranberries, and parsley.
Roast with Spaghetti
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1/2 cupful water
3 lbs. sirloin steak
1/2 can tomatoes
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 cupful cooked peas
1 large onion
1 cupful cooked spaghetti
1/4 lb. bacon
1 cupful cooked mushrooms
Salt and pepper to taste
8 stuffed olives
Melt Crisco and make very hot in roasting pan, lay in steak, season
with salt and pepper, cover with layer of sliced onion, layer of bacon, add
64
Vegetables
Turnips should be thickly peeled, as the rind in these is hard
and woody. Carrots and salsify, unless very old, need scraping
only. After the removal of the skin, all root vegetables
(except those of the onion kind) should be put in cold water
till wanted. Potatoes, artichokes, and salsify especially,
must not remain a moment. out of water after peeling, or
they will turn a dark color, and to the water used for the
two last, a little salt and lemon juice should be added in order
to keep them white.
Root vegetables should be boiled with the lid of the pan
on, green vegetables should be boiled with the lid of the
pan off, for the preservation of the color.
Baked Parsnips
1/2 cupful Crisco
5 parsnips
Salt and pepper to taste
Peel and wash parsnips and cut into two lengthwise, and steam for
one hour. Remove from fire, lay in greased baking pan, sprinkle with
salt and pepper, spread Crisco over top and bake slowly till tender. Serve
hot.
Brussels Sprouts with Crisco
1/2 cupful Crisco
2 baskets brussels sprouts
1/2 cupful grated cheese
Trim sprouts and cook them in boiling salted water till tender, drain
and dry on clean cloth. Heat Crisco hot, then add sprouts, and fry until
very hot. Turn them into hot vegetable dish, sprinkle cheese over them
and serve immediately.
Sufficient for one dish.
Colcannon
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 lb. cold cooked cabbage
1/2 lb. cold cooked potatoes
1 onion
Salt and pepper to taste
Chop onion and cabbage and mash potatoes. Put into frying pan
with Crisco and fry few minutes adding seasonings. Turn into Criscoed
fireproof dish and brown in oven.
Lentils and Rice
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful curry powder
1/2 cupful lentils
1 small onion
1/2 cupful milk
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/2 cupful water
1 cupful boiled rice
Salt and pepper to taste
Wash lentils and soak them in milk twelve hours. Melt Crisco,
slice onion and fry a pale brown, add curry powder, milk, water, season-
ings, and lentils, simmer two hours and add lemon juice just before serving.
Serve with rice.
67
IIIT
Vegetables
Corn Fritters
1 tablespoonful melted Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1 can crushed corn
2 teaspoonfuls salt
1 cupful flour
1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
3 tablespoonfuls milk
Put corn into bowl, add Crisco, salt, pepper, flour, baking powder,
and milk. Mix well and drop in spoonfuls on a Criscoed griddle. Fry
brown on both sides. These fritters are a palatable accompaniment to
roast chicken.
Sufficient for twelve fritters.
Corn, Okra and Tomatoes
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
6 ears corn
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
6 okra pods
Salt and pepper to taste
6 tomatoes
2 cupfuls water
Cut corn from cob, put into saucepan, cover with water and bring to
boil. Scald and skin tomatoes and cut okra into cross sections half inch
long. Add both to corn with Crisco and seasonings. Stir and cook until
tender. Serve hot.
Curried Cauliflower
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 dessertspoonful curry powder
1 cauliflower
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1 sliced onion
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful stock or water
Boil cauliflower in boiling salted water till tender, drain, then divide
into small flowerets. Fry onion in Crisco a few minutes, then add curry
powder, lemon juice and stock or water. Simmer fifteen minutes, then
strain into clean saucepan. Add cauliflower and salt and simmer fifteen
minutes. Serve hot.
Creamed Potatoes au Gratin
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful flour
1 quart peeled and diced
1 cupful grated cheese
potatoes
1 teaspoonful salt
2 cupfuls milk
1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
Few breadcrumbs
Cut potatoes in about 1 1/2-inch pieces, then boil carefully in boiling
salted water. When done, drain, and pour into Criscoed fireproof dish.
Blend Crisco and flour in saucepan over fire, add milk, stir till boiling, then
add cheese and seasonings. Pour over potatoes; grate a little cheese over
top, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and bake five minutes in hot oven.
68
Vegetables
Eggplant en Casserole
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
2 garlic cloves
1 large eggplant
3 tomatoes
3 small onions
1 green pepper
Salt and pepper to taste
Slice eggplant into thin slices, then slice onions, garlic, tomatoes
and pepper quite thin. Arrange them, alternately, in a Criscoed casserole,
seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Pour in melted Crisco and
cover. Cook over slow fire or in moderate oven till the eggplant is tender.
Serve hot or cold.
Fried Parsley
Crisco
1 bunch parsley
Salt and pepper to taste
Wash, pick and dry the parsley; put into frying basket and immerse in
hot Crisco fifteen seconds or until crisp. Drain and sprinkle with salt and
pepper. It should be a nice green color. If it turns black it has been too
long in the fat.
Green Peas a la Maitre d'Hotel
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1 quart shelled peas
2 sprigs mint
Salt and pepper to taste
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
1 teaspoonful sugar
Shell peas and throw into plenty boiling water containing a teaspoon-
ful of salt, sugar, and mint; boil fast until tender, then drain. Mix lemon
juice with Crisco and parsley; stir this among peas, reheat them, and
serve at once.
Jerusalem Artichokes
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 1/2 cupfuls milk
1 lb. artichokes
2 tablespoonfuls cream
2 tablespoonfuls flour
Salt and pepper to taste
1 yolk of egg
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice
1/4 cupful vinegar
1 pint boiling milk
Wash and scrape artichokes, and throw each one in cold water con-
taining vinegar; when all are done, rinse in water and put into boiling milk,
add cupful of boiling water and teaspoonful of salt. Boil quickly with lid
off, pierce with fork to know if done. Lift into hot dish and cover with
sauce. Blend Crisco and flour in saucepan, over fire, add milk, salt and
pepper, and cook five minutes. Remove from fire, add egg beaten with
cream and lemon juice, pour over artichokes and sprinkle parsley over top.
69
Vegetables
Mushrooms au Gratin
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
14 large mushrooms
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
1 egg
cooked meat
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs
to taste
1/2 cupful stock
1 tablespoonful chopped suet
Beat up egg, add suet, breadcrumbs, meat, parsley, and seasonings.
Wash and remove centers from mushrooms, season with salt, pepper, and
red pepper, also place tiny piece of Crisco in each. Then put heaping
teaspoonful of forcemeat in each one, and cover with crumbs. Lay on
Criscoed tin, add stock, and bake fifteen minutes. Serve on hot dish with
gravy poured' round.
Sufficient for fourteen mushrooms.
New Potatoes a la France
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful salt
2 lbs. new potatoes
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
2 sprigs mint
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
Wash and scrape potatoes. With round vegetable cutter scoop out
from potatoes a number of little balls like marbles; boil these till tender
in water, to which have been added salt and mint. Drain, add Crisco,
parsley, and lemon juice. Toss them about gently in pan a few minutes,
and serve on hot dish.
Potato Pone
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
1 generous cupful grated raw
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
sweet potatoes
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful molasses
1 tablespoonful chopped
1 cupful milk
candied orange peel
1/2 cupful sugar
Grate potatoes or put them through meat chopper, add molasses,
sugar, milk, Crisco, salt, spices, and orange peel. Mix well, turn into
Criscoed fireproof dish and bake in moderate oven till firm.
Sufficient for one small pone.
Savory Lentil Dish
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
Salt, pepper, and powdered
1 cupful lentils
mace to taste
1 bay leaf
1 cupful boiled rice
3 sprigs parsley
1 1/2 cupfuls highly seasoned
1 chopped onion
tomato sauce
Wash lentils and soak in plenty of cold water four hours. Put into
boiling salt water, add bay leaf, parsley, seasonings and cook till tender.
70
Vegetables
Chop and fry onion in 3 tablespoonfuls of Crisco, add lentils, rice and
remainder of Crisco, stir and allow to get hot. Turn into hot dish and pour
over tomato sauce.
Stuffed Beets
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs
6 beets
1/2 teaspoonful onion juice
2 green peppers
Salt and pepper to taste
Watercress
Select 6 smooth even-sized beets and boil in boiling salted water until
tender. Peel, remove root end and remove center, leaving shell about
half inch thick. Remove stems and seeds from peppers; cover peppers
with boiling water ten minutes. Dice them with scooped out beet, add
Crisco, breadcrumbs, and seasonings. Mix and divide into beet shells,
dot with Crisco and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve gar-
nished with watercress.
Sufficient for six beets.
Stuffed Eggplant
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 egg
3 small eggplants
Salt, pepper, and nutmeg to
1/2 cupful breadcrumbs
taste
1 1/2 cupfuls stock
1/2 cupful white wine
1/2 cupful chopped cooked
Criscoed crumbs
chicken or veal
1 tablespoonful flour
1 tablespoonful sherry
Cut eggplants in halves and scoop out inside, leaving shell half inch
thick. Soak 1/2 cupful breadcrumbs in 1/2 cupful stock ten minutes, then
add cooked chicken, 2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco, egg, well beaten,
and seasoning of salt, pepper and nutmeg. Divide this forcemeat into
eggplants, sprinkle Criscoed crumbs on top, set them in greased pan, pour
in rest of stock and white wine and bake half hour in moderate oven.
Serve on hot dish with following sauce.
Put 1 tablespoonful Crisco and 1 tablespoonful flour into saucepan and
blend over fire, add sherry and 1 cupful liquor from pan in which they were
baked, and cook five minutes.
Sufficient for three eggplants.
Stuffed Potatoes
(Kate B. Vaughn)
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
6 large potatoes
1 yolk of egg
Salt and pepper to taste
Wash six well shaped white potatoes and rub skin with Crisco. Bake
until tender, cut slice off one end, and with a teaspoon remove all potato
from shells. Mash the potato, adding Crisco, cheese, seasonings, and egg
yolk. Refill shells and bake fifteen minutes. Serve hot on napkin.
Sufficient for six potatoes.
71
Salads
constituents of the salad, cut up rather small, garnished
with slices of tomato or beets, cucumber and hard-cooked egg.
The remainder of the dressing should be poured over this, and
the top of the meat or fish pyramid may be ornamented with a
few sprigs of endive or parsley.
Apple, Celery and Nut Salad
For Dressing
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
1 teaspoonful mustard
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful sugar
4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful whipped cream
For Salad
1 quart chopped apples
1 1/2 cupfuls blanched and shred-
1 pint diced celery
ded almonds
2/3 cupful rolled pecan nut meats
For salad. Mix apples, celery and nut meats.
For dressing. Melt Crisco, add mustard, sugar, salt, pepper, yolks
of eggs well beaten, and lemon juice. Cook in double boiler till it thickens,
then add whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Chill and add whipped cream just
before serving. Dressing should be mixed with fruit.
Asparagus Salad
For Dressing
6 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 tablespoonful chopped
1 teaspoonful salt
cucumber pickles
1/4 teaspoonful paprika
1 tablespoonful chopped green
Pinch black pepper
peppers
1 tablespoonful tarragon
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
vinegar
1 teaspoonful chopped chives
2 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar
1 can asparagus or fresh cooked
asparagus
Drain asparagus and chill. Mix salt with paprika, add pepper, tar-
ragon vinegar, cider vinegar, Crisco, pickles, peppers, parsley, and chives,
mix well and pour over the asparagus.
Celery and Almond Salad
1 cupful melted Crisco
1 crisp lettuce
1 yolk of egg
Few drops green color
1 tablespoonful lemon juice
1/2 teaspoonful sugar
1 tablespoonful vinegar
1 teaspoonful salt
1 head celery
1/2 teaspoonful mustard
1/2 cupful blanched almonds
Red pepper to taste
Melt and cool Crisco. Prepare celery and cut into very thin strips
and plunge in ice water until wanted. Blanch and shred almonds; wash
and dry lettuce leaves. Put yolk of egg into bowl, add mustard, salt, and
74
Salads
red
er and mix well with wooden spoon. Add sugar, teaspoonful
juice, teaspoonful vinegar; beat in Crisco gradually. Remove
spoon and beat with egg beater five minutes, then beat in rest of lemon
juice and vinegar. Add more seasonings if needed and enough green
color to make it look pretty. Dry celery and mix with almonds, then
toss them into dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves.
Fruit Salad
Dressing
1 tablespoonful Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar
Pinch of salt
2 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 pint whipped cream
Salad
24 marshmallows
2 juicy apples
1 can pineapple
6 oranges
Lettuce leaves
For salad. Cut fruit and marshmallows into small pieces, then mix
and chill.
For dressing. Beat up eggs in double boiler, add vinegar, sugar,
salt, Crisco and cook until thick. Cool and add whipped cream. Mix with
fruit and serve on crisp lettuce leaves.
Orange and Tomato Salad
3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
4 tomatoes
Tarragon vinegar
4 oranges
Salt
Peel oranges and tomatoes, and slice and arrange alternately in salad
bowl. Mix juice squeezed from "tops and bottoms" of oranges with an
equal quantity of tarragon vinegar, add Crisco and salt to taste. Pour
over fruit and sprinkle chopped parsley on top.
Potato and Nut Salad
For Dressing
For Salad
5 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
3 cupfuls sliced cold potatoes
1 teaspoonful mustard
1 cupful broken hickory nut
1 teaspoonful salt
meats
2 teaspoonfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful chopped onion
2 yolk: of eggs
Chopped parsley
3/4 cupful cream or milk
Cold cooked sliced beets
1/4 cupful vinegar
Sliced lemon
Lettuce leaves
For dressing. Mix sugar, salt, and mustard, add Crisco and stir
thoroughly; then add yolks of eggs well beaten, cream, and lastly vinegar.
Cook in double boiler until consistency of cream. If milk is used instead
of cream, add 1 teaspoonful flour to other dry ingredients.
For salad. Mix potatoes, nuts, and onion together, and place on
crisp lettuce leaves; pour over dressing and garnish to taste with beets,
lemon, and parsley.
75
Salads
Potato and Pimiento Salad
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1/2 can pimientos
4 potatoes
1 tablespoonful chopped
2 hard-cooked eggs
cucumber pickle
1 teaspoonful salt
Dressing
1 tablespoonful Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
2 teaspoonfuls dry mustard
1 lemon
1 teaspoonful salt
1/2 pint vinegar
2 eggs
For salad. Boil potatoes and slice them, add Crisco and salt. Now
chop pickles, eggs, and pimientoes and add them and set in cool place to
chill.
For dressing. Put vinegar into double boiler, add strained lemon juice,
sugar, salt, mustard, then add Crisco and eggs well beaten. Cook until
thick, then cool and use.
Shrimp Salad
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 lemon
1 can shrimps
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar
1 cupful celery cut in cubes
2 tablespoonfuls water
1 cupful tart apples cut in
4 eggs
cubes
1 teaspoonful dry mustard
1 cupful broken Brazil nut
1 teaspoonful salt
meats
1 teaspoonful sugar
1/2 cupful broken English
1/2 teaspoonful white pepper
walnut meats
1/2 cupful thick cream and 1
Salt and pepper to taste
cupful whipped cream
Crisp lettuce leaves
Break shrimps into pieces, put them into earthenware dish, moisten
with a little melted Crisco, season with vinegar, salt and pepper. Put
apple cubes into a small dish and sprinkle lightly with lemon juice, then
put in celery cubes with a little more lemon juice and toss together. Cover
and set aside. Prepare nut meats. Heat vinegar and water in double
boiler, beat eggs, then gradually add them to vinegar, stirring all the time.
Now add Crisco and cook slowly, stirring constantly. Remove from fire,
and beat till cold, then add mustard, salt, sugar, and pepper. Add the
thick cream just before serving. When ready to serve toss nuts, celery,
apples and shrimps together with a silver fork, and add a little dressing.
Heap on crisp lettuce leaves on individual plates, and pour over each salad
a heaping spoonful of the dressing; and top with spoonful of unsweetened
whipped cream.
76
Puddings
over when it comes to boil, put spoon in saucepan. Never
leave spoon in saucepan if you wish the contents to cook quick-
ly, and in any case a metal spoon never should be allowed to
stand in a boiling saucepan containing fruit or any acid.
Apple Dumplings
5 apples
1/2 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
3/4 cupful milk
2 cupfuls flour
Sugar
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
Cinnamon
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together. Work in Crisco with
finger tips; add gradually milk, mixing with knife to a nice dough. Roll
1/2 inch thick, cut into squares and lay in center of each an apple, pared
and cored. Fill up centers with sugar and cinnamon and take corners off
the dough and pinch together. Place in Criscoed baking pan, dot over
with sugar and Crisco and bake in moderate oven for twenty-five minutes
or till nicely browned. Serve hot with milk.
Sufficient for five dumplings.
Apple Fritters
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
3/4 cupful milk
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
3 apples cut in quarter inch
1/4 teaspoonful salt
slices
1 egg
3 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 tablespoonful melted Crisco
1 lemon
Peel, core and slice apples, then sprinkle 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and
strained juice of the lemon over them. Sift flour, baking powder, sugar,
and salt into bowl, add milk to well beaten egg and stir liquid gradually
into dry materials, beating thoroughly, then add Crisco. Cover apple
slices with batter and drop them into plenty of Crisco heated so that small
breadcrumb browns in sixty seconds. Fry for four or five minutes. Drain
and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Any other fruit may be substituted
for apples or a combination of fruits makes a delicious fritter.
Sufficient for twelve fritters.
Baked Rhubarb Pudding
2 cupfuls flour
1 lemon
1/2 teaspoonful salt
6 tablespoonfuls brown sugar
2 bundles rhubarb
Water
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 cupful granulated sugar
Put granulated sugar into small saucepan over fire, and when brown,
coat inside of plain pudding mold with it. Sift, flour, salt, and baking
powder together, rub Crisco finely into it, then mix whole to a smooth
78
Puddings
paste with cold water. Turn out on a floured board, cut off one-third of
it, and put one side for the lid. Roll out remainder until twice the cir-
cumference of the top of the mold, then drop gently into mold, pressing
evenly against sides. Fill center with rhubarb, cut in pieces an inch long.
Add grated rind and strained juice of half of the lemon, brown sugar and
3 tablespoonfuls water. Roll out pastry that was put on one side, wet
edges of it, lay it on top. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake
in moderate oven one hour. Turn out and serve with hot milk.
Caramel Bread Pudding
3 cupfuls breadcrumbs
Grated nutmeg to taste
1 quart hot milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 eggs
1 cupful sugar
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Whipped cream
Put Crisco, crumbs, and salt into a basin, add hot milk and soak ten
minutes. Melt sugar and brown it lightly in a small pan over fire, then
add it to the bread, with eggs well beaten, and flavorings. Pour into
Criscoed pudding dish and bake in moderate oven till firm. Serve with
whipped cream.
Caramel Rice Pudding
1/3 cupful rice
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
2 cupfuls milk
3 eggs
1/4 cupful sultana raisins
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar
1/4 cupful granulated sugar
Melt granulated sugar in small saucepan and cook until brown, but
do not burn; pour it while hot into pudding mold and spread it all over
inside. Wash rice, parboil, drain, and cook slowly in milk thirty minutes;
turn into basin, add powdered sugar, Crisco, salt, raisins, extract, and eggs
well beaten and pour into prepared mold. Set mold in pan of boiling water
and bake in oven till quite set. Turn out and serve hot or cold.
Carrot Pudding
For Pudding
1 cupful brown sugar
1/2 cupful milk
1 cupful grated carrots
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
1 cupful grated raw potatoes
1 teaspoonful salt
3/4 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1 cupful seeded raisins
1 teaspoonful mixed spices
1/2 cupful breadcrumbs
1 cupful currants
Prune sauce
79
in
Puddings
For Sauce
1/2 lb. prunes
1 lemon
1 wineglassful sherry wine
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
For pudding. Cream Crisco and sugar together, add carrots, potatoes,
raisins, currants, crumbs, flour, baking powder, salt, and milk. Turn into
Criscoed mold, cover, and steam steadily for three hours.
For sauce. Soak prunes in water over night, after first washing them.
Next day put them in pan with water they were soaked in, just enough
to cover them, simmer gently until quite soft. Do not allow to boil, or
fruit will be spoiled. Take out stones, crack some, and save kernels.
Rub prunes through sieve, add sherry, kernels blanched, grated rind and
strained lemon juice, and cinnamon, and then, if thicker than rich cream,
add more wine, or water, and use.
Chocolate Jelly
2 squares chocolate
4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 cupfuls boiling water
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
3/4 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful chopped walnut meats
Whipped cream
Break chocolate into small pieces, dissolve in boiling water, add Crisco,
salt, cornstarch mixed with sugar, stir and boil for eight minutes. Remove
from fire,add vanilla and nuts and pour at once into wet mold. Cool, turn
out and serve with whipped cream.
Cottage Pudding
1 cupful sugar
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 egg
2 1/2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 cupful milk or water
1/2 teaspoonful salt
214 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1 cupful sultana raisins
Sauce
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1 teaspoonful flour
1 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1 egg
1 1/2 cupfuls boiling water
For pudding. Cream Crisco and sugar together, add egg well beaten,
milk, vanilla, flour, baking powder, salt, and raisins. Mix well, turn into
greased mold, and bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. Turn out
80
Puddings
and serve with sauce. This pudding may be steamed for one and
a half hours.
For sauce. Mix flour, sugar, and Crisco in small saucepan, then stir in
egg and boiling water and boil for three minutes. Flavor with the vanilla.
Molasses Sponge Pudding
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful molasses
2 teaspoonfuls powdered ginger
1 egg
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
1 tablespoonful breadcrumbs
1/2 cupful Crisco
3/4 cupful milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
For Sauce
1 teaspoonful Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
3 tablespoonfuls molasses
1 cupful hot water
For pudding. Mix flour, breadcrumbs, soda and ginger together, then
rub in Crisco with finger tips. Beat egg, add milk, molasses, salt and
stir into dry ingredients. Turn mixture into Criscoed mold, cover with
greased paper and steam steadily for two hours. Turn out and serve with
sauce.
For sauce. Blend Crisco and cornstarch together, add molasses,
water, and lemon juice, and boil a few minutes.
Monica Pudding
3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
3 eggs
2 cupfuls milk
1/4 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful flour
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
For Sauce
1/4 cupful Crisco
1/2 cupful cream
1/2 cupful powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
For pudding. Heat 1 cupful milk. Add other cupful milk gradually
to flour, then stir into boiling milk, stir and cook five minutes. The mix-
ture should be quite smooth. Remove from fire, add Crisco, sugar, yolks
of eggs well beaten, salt, vanilla, and whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Turn
into Criscoed baking dish, set in pan half full of boiling water. Bake
in
moderate oven thirty-five minutes. Serve with sauce.
For sauce. Melt Crisco, add sugar, cream and vanilla extract and
bring to boil.
Noodle Pudding
1 pint noodles
1 lemon
3/4 cupful sugar
1/4 cupful blanched and chopped
4 eggs
almonds
1/4 cupful melted Crisco
2 cupfuls milk
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Throw noodles into boiling salted water, and cook five minutes.
Drain in colander. Beat eggs until light and stir in the noodles. Grease
pudding dish with Crisco, put in layer of noodles, sprinkle with sugar,
almonds, grated lemon peel, and melted Crisco. Then add another layer of
81
Puddings
noodles and proceed as before, until all are used up. Add milk and salt,
and bake one hour in moderate oven. Serve hot with milk or cream. This
pudding is delicious with stewed fruits.
Peach Delights
1 quart flour
Milk
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 egg
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
1/2 cupful Crisco
Peaches, fresh or canned
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Whipped cream
Sift flour, salt, sugar, and baking powder together, then rub Crisco
lightly into them with finger tips; add lemon extract and enough milk to
make soft dough. Drop mixture into Criscoed gem pans; place 1/2 peach
on each one; fill cavities with sugar and bake in hot oven twenty-five
minutes. Serve with whipped and sweetened cream.
Sufficient for twenty delights.
Pineapple Pudding
For Pudding
1 can pineapple
1 cupful breadcrumbs
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
6 eggs
Hard sauce
For Sauce
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
2 tablespoonfuls sherry
1/2 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls blanched and
1/2 cupful Crisco
chopped almonds
For pudding. Beat eggs, add crumbs, salt, Crisco, sugar, and pine-
apple cut into small dice. Turn into Criscoed pudding dish and bake
in moderate oven until firm. Serve hot or cold with sauce.
For sauce. Beat Crisco with sugar to a cream, add salt, sherry, and
almonds.
Mrs. Vaughn's Plum Pudding
1/2 1b. brown sugar
1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
3 eggs
1/4 teaspoonful powdered mace
1/4 1b. breadcrumbs
1/2 cupful New Orleans
1/2 1b. browned flour
molasses
1/2 lb. Crisco
1/2 cupful brandy (or grape juice)
2 teaspoonfuls baking
3/4 cupful lemon juice
powder
1/2 lb. seeded raisins
1 teaspoonful salt
1/2 lb. sultana raisins
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves
1 lb. currants
1/2 teaspoonful powdered
1 lb. crystallized fruits, consist-
cinnamon
ing of pineapple, cherries,
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
figs, orange peel, and citron
Chop crystallized fruits, add raisins and currants, then pour brandy (or
grape juice) over them and let stand several hours. Cream Crisco and
82
Puddings
sugar, add eggs well beaten together, and all other ingredients. Divide
into greased mold (small Crisco cans will do) filling two-thirds full and
steam steadily for three hours. Turn out while hot and serve with hard
sauce.
Sufficient for two medium-sized puddings or one very large one.
Rice Pudding
1/2 cupful rice
3 eggs
3 cupfuls milk
Powdered cinnamon to taste
3/4 cupful sugar
1/4 cupful seeded raisins
1/4 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Wash rice and steam it in milk until thick, then allow to cool. Cream
Crisco and sugar, add well beaten eggs, raisins, salt, rice, and cinnamon.
Grease pudding dish with Crisco, pour in mixture and bake one hour in
moderate oven.
Walnut Pudding
1/2 cupful sugar
2 eggs
2 cupfuls flour
1 cupful milk
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 cupful chopped English
1/2 teaspoonful salt
walnut meats
For Sauce
1 cupful sugar
3 yolks eggs
1/2 cupful water
2 cupfuls whipped cream
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
Mix flour, sugar, salt and baking powder together, add eggs well
beaten, vanilla extract, milk, Crisco, and nuts. Mix well and divide into 9
greased individual molds, cover with greased papers, and steam steadily
for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve.
For sauce. Boil sugar and water till syrup spins a thread, pour over
beaten yolks of eggs, and stir quickly. Set aside to cool, stir occasion-
ally, add lemon extract and just before serving mix in whipped cream.
Sufficient for nine individual puddings.
Sandwiches
spread them with the mixture and make into small sandwiches. Dip each
sandwich into some prepared fritter batter, and fry to golden brown in hot
Crisco. Drain and serve hot.
Sufficient for twelve sandwiches.
Hudson Sandwiches
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Salt and pepper to taste
1/2 lb. cooked meat
Crisp lettuce leaves
6 stoned olives
12 picked shrimps
1 teaspoonful capers
Parsley
2 hard-cooked eggs
Brown bread
Put through food chopper cooked meat, olives, capers, and yolks of
hard cooked eggs, then add Crisco and seasonings. Spread mixture on
slices of buttered brown bread, and stamp them out with a round cutter;
sprinkle surfaces of sandwiches with chopped whites of eggs. Dish up in
circular fashion. Put lettuce in center with shrimps and a few sprigs of
parsley. This sandwich quite repays the trouble of making.
Sufficient for twenty sandwiches.
Pimiento Cheese Sandwiches
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful diced cheese
1 can pimientoes
1 teaspoonful cornstarch
Paprika to taste
6 tablespoonfuls milk
Graham bread
Put cheese into double boiler, add Crisco, cornstarch, milk, salt, and
paprika to taste and stir and cook until smooth, then add pimientoes cut
into small pieces. Spread between buttered slices of graham bread.
Sufficient for twenty-five sandwiches.
Rice Sandwiches
1 tablespoonful Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls chopped cooked
1/2 cupful rice
liver
1 sprig parsley
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
1 blade mace
cooked ham
1 strip lemon peel
Salt and pepper to taste
Bread
Boil rice in plenty of boiling salted water, add parsley, mace, and
lemon peel. When quite tender strain off water, take out parsley, mace,
and lemon, and stir into the rice, liver, Crisco, ham, and seasonings. Cut
an even number of slices of bread, spread mixture when cold on one-half,
and cover with remaining slices of bread. Trim and cut into diamond
shapes.
Sufficient for twenty sandwiches.
86
Sandwiches
Sardine Sandwiches
2 tablespoonfuls melted
1 tomato
Crisco
Salt, pepper, and paprika
1 dozen sardines
to taste
1 tablespoonful whipped
Lettuce leaves
cream
Slices of brown or white bread
Bone and skin the sardines, then rub through sieve, add cream,
Crisco, pulp of tomato and seasonings and mix well. Spread mixture
between slices of brown or white bread and butter, stamp out in rounds,
in center of each round force a row of whipped cream seasoned with salt
and red pepper, place small stamped out leaves of lettuce' round the cream.
Sufficient for twelve sandwiches.
Tomato Sandwiches
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 tablespoonful flour
1 cupful water
1 1/2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 cupful vinegar
Few grains red pepper
2 eggs well beaten
Firm ripe tomatoes
1 teaspoonful salt
Bread
1 teaspoonful mustard
Whipped cream
Mix sugar, flour, salt, mustard and red pepper together, add eggs,
vinegar, Crisco, and water and cook in double boiler until thick, stirring
all the time. To every tablespoonful of dressing add equal quantity of
whipped cream. Skin and slice tomatoes very thin, dip slices into dressing
and place between thin slices of buttered bread. Cut into finger shaped
pieces.
Sufficient for thirty sandwiches.
Tomato and Horseradish Sandwiches
1 tablespoonful Crisco
Bread
1/4 cupful grated horseradish
1/4 cupful mayonnaise
1 tomato
Salt and paprika to taste
Parsley
Mix Crisco, horseradish, and mayonnaise together. Skin and slice
tomato, sprinkle with salt and paprika. Spread thin slices of bread and
butter with Crisco mixture, and put sliced tomato between, cut into fancy
shapes and garnish with parsley.
Sufficient for ten sandwiches.
87
Pastries
Butterscotch Pie
1 egg
3 tablespoonfuls water
1 cupful dark brown sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful milk
1 tablespoonful powdered sugar
3 tablespoonfuls flour
1 baked crust
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Put yolk of egg into saucepan, add brown sugar, flour, milk, water,
Crisco, salt, and vanilla. Stir over fire until it thickens and comes to boil-
ing point. Pour into baked pie shell. Beat up white of egg, then beat
powdered sugar into it. Spread on top of pie and brown lightly in oven.
Sufficient for one pie.
Rhubarb Custard Pie
1 cupful cut rhubarb
2 eggs
1 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful ginger extract
1 tablespoonful flour
1 cupful milk
1 tablespoonful melted Crisco
Crisco pastry
Cut rhubarb in small pieces and mix with sugar and flour. Beat egg
yolks, add milk, ginger extract, and melted Crisco. Line pie plate with
pastry, and fill with rhubarb mixture. Pour custard over and bake in
moderate oven until firm. Cover with meringue made with stiffly beaten
whites of eggs to which two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar have been
added.
Sufficient for one small pie.
Sugar Paste for Tartlets
1 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
4 cupfuls flour
3 eggs
1/2 cupful Crisco, generous measure
1 lemon
Sift flour on to baking board, make hole in center, and put in grated
lemon rind, salt, sugar, eggs, and Crisco. Mix the whole to a stiff pastry.
This paste is used for the bottom layer of pies and to line tartlet tins of
various kinds. It is excellent for turnovers. Sufficient for thirty tartlets.
Currant Tartlets
1/3 cupful currants
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
3 tablespoonfuls ground rice
candied orange peel
2 whites of eggs
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Pinch of salt
3/4 cupful sponge cake crumbs
Crisco pastry
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 tablespoonful cream
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add ground rice, crumbs, peel,
currants, cream, salt, lemon extract, and whites of eggs well beaten. Roll
out paste, cut into rounds, line some Criscoed tartlet tins with rounds,
put in each a tablespoonful of the mixture. Bake tartlets in moderate
oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. Or, these tartlets may be covered with
frosting, and a little chopped cocoanut sprinkled over tops.
Sufficient for nine tartlets.
94
Pastries
Bartemian Tarts
1 cupful sugar
1 egg
1 lemon
1 cupful raisins
1/4 1b. chopped candied citron
1 tablespoonful melted
peel
Crisco
Crisco flake pastry
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Roll pastry thin and cut out large cakes of it. Beat egg, add sugar,
Crisco, rind and strained juice of lemon, salt, citron, and raisins. Mix and
put tablespoonful of mixture on each of pastry cakes, wet edges of paste
and fold like old fashioned turn over. Do not stick with fork or juice will
run out. Lay turn overs on Criscoed tins and bake in hot oven from twelve
to fifteen minutes.
Sufficient for twelve tarts.
Apricot Tarts
2 cupfuls flour
2 teaspoonfuls vanilla extract
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
Apricot jam or jelly
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Whipped cream
1 egg
Angelica
Preserved cherries
Rub Crisco into flour, add salt, sugar, baking powder, break egg in
and mix well with fork, then add vanilla. Roll out, cut with cutter and
line Criscoed tartlet tins with the rounds. Line with paper and put in
some rice or peas to keep paste from rising; bake in hot oven twenty min-
utes. Remove rice and papers. When pastries are cold put in each one a
spoonful of the jam or jelly. Fill with whipped cream and decorate with
cherries and angelica.
Sufficient for thirty tarts.
Bakewell Tartlets
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 teaspoonful baking powder
2 eggs
1/4 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
1 cupful flour
Preserves
Pastry
Cream Crisco and sugar, then add eggs well beaten, flour, salt, baking
powder, and extract. Line twelve tärtlet tins with pastry, put teaspoon-
ful of preserves in each, then divide mixture into them, and bake in moder-
ately hot oven twenty minutes.
Sufficient for twelve tartlets.
95
Breads, etc.
and roll out lightly on floured baking board; cut into circles with dough-
nut cutter, lay on Criscoed tins and bake in moderate oven from seven to
ten minutes or till light brown. These cookies will keep fresh two weeks,
and if milk is left out, a month.
Sufficient for seventy jumbles.
Boston Brown Bread
1 cupful ryemeal
1 cupful graham flour
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
3/4 tablespoonful baking soda
1 cupful sugar
1/3 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful cornmeal
3/4 cupful molasses
1 3/4 cupfuls sweet milk
Mix and sift ingredients. Dissolve soda with one tablespoonful hot
water, add to molasses, then add milk and mix with dry ingredients.
Turn into greased mold two-thirds full, grease cover, and steam steadily
three and a half hours. A 6-pound Crisco pail can be used for a mold.
Sufficient for one loaf.
Bran Gems
1/2 cupful bran
1/2 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 saltspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful whole wheat
1 egg
flour
2 tablespoonfuls molasses
1/2 cupful white flour
1 teaspoonful baking powder
Mix Crisco thoroughly with molasses, add egg well beaten, milk, salt,
bran, flours, and baking powder. Divide into well greased gem pans, and
bake in hot oven from eight to ten minutes. These gems are excellent for
constipation.
Sufficient for eight gems.
Brown Nut Bread
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
2 eggs
1 1/2 cupfuls graham flour
1 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful sour milk
1 teaspoonful baking soda
2/3 cupful New Orleans molasses
1 cupful sultana raisins
1 cupful chopped nut meats
Beat eggs and sugar together for five minutes, then add molasses,
soda mixed with milk, salt, flours, raisins, and nuts. Mix and turn into
Criscoed and floured cake tin and bake in slow oven one and a quarter
hours.
Sufficient for one medium-sized loaf.
Buttermilk Biscuits
1 quart flour
1 teaspoonful baking soda
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1 tablespoonful sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoonful salt
3/4 pint buttermilk
Sift flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar together, then rub in Crisco
with finger tips, add egg well beaten, and soda mixed with milk. Dough
93
Breads, etc.
should be soft and little more milk can be added if needed. Roll out lightly
and handle as little as possible. Cut with biscuit cutter, lay on Criscoed
tins and bake in hot oven ten minutes.
Sufficient for thirty biscuits.
Chocolate Brownies
1 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful flour
6 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 cupful chopped English
2 eggs
walnut meats
2 squares chocolate
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1/3 teaspoonful salt
3 tablespoonfuls boiling water
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, chocolate
dissolved in boiling water, salt, flour, vanilla, and nuts. Divide and spread
thin in 2 Criscoed square pans and bake in slow oven from twenty to
twenty-five minutes. Cut in strips and serve with ice cream. These are
a cross between cookies and heavy cake.
Sufficient for fifty brownies.
Chocolate Wafers
1 cupful sugar
2 eggs
5 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful baking soda
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1/4 cake chocolate
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add chocolate melted, eggs well
beaten, vanilla extract, flour, salt, and soda. Mix and turn out on to
floured baking board. Roll out thin, and cut with small cutter. Lay on
Criscoed tin and bake from seven to ten minutes in moderate oven.
Sufficient for forty-six wafers.
Citron Buns
1 yeast cake
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
6 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 cupful scalded milk
3/4 cupful Crisco
1 egg
1/2 cupful raisins
5 1/2 cupfuls flour
1/4 cupful chopped citron peel
1/4 cupful lukewarm water
1 teaspoonful salt
Scald milk, add half of sugar and salt; when lukewarm add yeast
dissolved in water and 1 1/2 cupfuls flour. Mix, cover, and let rise till
light; then add Crisco, remainder of sugar and flour, raisins, peel, and
extract. Knead lightly, cover, and let rise. Divide into small pieces,
let rise on greased tins, brush over with beaten egg and bake in hot oven
twenty minutes.
Sufficient for twenty-two buns.
Coffee Bread
3/4 cupful milk
1 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful melted Crisco
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
1/2 cake compressed yeast
1/4 cupful chopped English
1 teaspoonful salt
walnut meats
2 eggs
Flour
Heat milk slightly, then add flour to make batter and yeast dissolved
in little lukewarm water. Allow to rise until light, then add Crisco, eggs
99
Breads, etc.
well beaten, sugar, lemon, salt, and enough flour to make stiff dough.
Knead ten minutes and let rise until light. Place in Criscoed pan and let
rise again. Spread with melted Crisco and sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon
and nuts. Bake in hot oven half an hour.
Sufficient for one large loaf.
Columbia Muffins
3 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 1/2 cupfuls milk
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful salt
1 egg
3 1/2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
3 1/2 cupfuls sifted flour
Sift flour, salt, and baking powder together. Cream Crisco and sugar,
add egg well beaten, then milk and flour mixture. Divide into Criscoed
and floured gem pans and bake twenty-five minutes in hot oven.
Sufficient for twenty muffins.
Corn Bread
1 cupful cornmeal
1 cupful sour cream
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
2 eggs
1 cupful flour
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
1/2 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Mix cornmeal with flour, sugar, salt, Crisco, eggs well beaten, and
soda mixed with cream. Mix well and turn into Criscoed tin and bake
in moderate oven thirty minutes.
Sufficient for one small pan of corn bread.
Cornmeal Rolls
114 cupfuls flour
1 tablespoonful sugar
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 egg
3/4 cupful cornmeal
1/2 cupful milk
4 teaspoonfuls baking powder
Sift together flour, cornmeal, salt, baking powder, and sugar. Rub
in Crisco with finger tips, then add egg well beaten and milk. Roll out,
cut into rounds with a large cutter, brush over with melted Crisco, fold
over as for Parkerhouse rolls, brush tops with beaten egg or milk and bake
in hot oven ten minutes.
Sufficient for fifteen rolls.
Cream Scones
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2.eggs
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/3 cupful cream
2 teaspoonfuls sugar
1 white of egg
Mix and sift flour, salt, sugar, and baking powder. Rub in Crisco with
finger tips, add eggs well beaten and cream. Knead dough lightly on floured
baking board, divide into four equal pieces, make smooth and roll out,
100
Breads, etc.
and cut into 4 small scones. Lay them on hot griddle, brush over with
beaten white of egg and fry slowly on both sides. The dough should
always be lightly handled.
Sufficient for sixteen scones.
Crisco Brownies
1/3 cupful sugar
1 cupful flour
1/3 cupful Crisco
1 cupful chopped nut meats
1/3 cupful molasses
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, molasses,
extract, flour, salt and nuts. Divide into small fancy Criscoed tins, or
bake in Criscoed sheet tin and cut in squares. Bake in moderate oven half
hour. These are a cross between cake and candy.
Sufficient for twelve squares.
Crisco Batter Cakes
3 eggs
1 cupful buttermilk
1/2 cupful melted Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
1 cupful flour
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Beat up yolks of eggs, add milk, Crisco, and flour mixed with salt,
soda, and baking powder and beat till smooth. Fold in whites beaten to a
stiff froth. Drop in large spoonfuls on ungreased skillet or griddle. Serve
hot with butter or maple syrup.
Sufficient for fifteen cakes.
Crisco Milk Bread
3 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 yeast cake
3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 quart milk
2 tablespoonfuls salt
About 7 pints flour
Mix yeast cake with 1 tablespoonful sugar. Heat milk, add remainder
of sugar, Crisco, and salt. Cool and add yeast and flour to make stiff
dough. Turn out on floured baking board, cut in three pieces, knead first
one piece, then others, stretching dough; let rise over night or in warm
temperature five hours. Knead lightly and divide into Criscoed pans.
Allow to rise and bake in moderate oven one hour. From same dough,
French bread, breadsticks, horse shoe rolls and French rolls can be made.
Sufficient for three loaves.
Dessert Biscuits
1 cupful confectioners' sugar
5 whites of eggs
1 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1 cupful flour
1 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco and gradually add sugar, mix thoroughly, and incor-
porate, one by one, whites of eggs. Now add flour, salt, and vanilla.
Mix well, then place in small, long heaps on a Criscoed tin. Bake in cool
oven to pale brown color.
Sufficient for sixty biscuits.
101
Breads, etc.
Entire Wheat Bread
114 cupfuls boiling water
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 yeast cake
134 cupfuls milk
1/4 cupful tepid water
2 teaspoonfuls salt
Whole wheat flour
Mix boiling water, milk, sugar, salt, and Crisco together. Add yeast
cake dissolved in tepid water, with 3 1/2 cupfuls whole wheat flour. Mix
and let stand until light. Add more flour until soft dough is formed,
then knead and divide into two loaves. Place in Criscoed tins and let
stand until the dough doubles its bulk. Brush over with milk and bake in
moderate oven one and a half hours.
Sufficient for two small loaves.
Excellent Graham Bread
2 cupfuls graham flour
1 1/2 cupfuls sour milk
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1/4 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1 teaspoonful baking soda
Sift flours with baking powder, salt, sugar, and soda, then add Crisco
and milk. Mix and turn into greased and floured cake tin and bake in
moderate oven fifty minutes.
Sufficient for one small loaf.
Filled Cookies
1 egg
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1 cupful sugar
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful Crisco
3 3/2 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful milk or cream
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
For Filling
1 cupful chopped raisins
1/2 cupful sugar
1 tablespoonful flour
1/2 cupful water
1/2 cupful chopped walnut meats
For cookies. Cream Crisco and sugar, add salt, egg well beaten, milk,
vanilla, and flour sifted with baking powder and soda. Mix and turn
out on floured baking board. Dough should be soft. Roll very thin and
cut out with cooky cutter. Spread one-half of cookies with filling, then
place remaining cookies on top and press edges together. Place on Criscoed
tins and bake in moderately hot oven fifteen minutes.
For filling. Mix sugar and flour in saucepan, add raisins, nuts, and
water, stir and cook until thick. Cool before using.
Fried Cornmeal Nut Cakes
2 cupfuls yellow cornmeal
1 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 egg
3 cupfuls boiling water
1/2 cupful chopped nut meats
Bring water and salt to boil, stir in cornmeal, add nut meats, and stir
and cook ten minutes. Remove from fire and add egg well beaten, and
102
Breads, etc.
melted Crisco. Turn into Criscoed tin and cool. When cold, slice and
fry in hot Crisco. Serve with honey or maple syrup.
Sufficient for six or eight slices.
Fried Cakes with Apple Sauce
1 cupful sugar
1 teaspoonful baking soda
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
3 cupfuls sour milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/4 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
Flour
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
Apple sauce
Cream Crisco, gradually add sugar, then add salt, nutmeg, lemon,
soda, baking powder, sour milk and sufficient flour to make stiffish dough.
Roll out on floured baking board, cut with large round cutter, and fry in
hot Crisco until well cooked and nicely browned on both sides. Drain and
serve with hot apple sauce.
Sufficient for twenty cakes.
Fruit Cookies
1 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful powdered
2 cupfuls brown sugar
cinnamon
1 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful powdered allspice
1 cupful chopped raisins
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
1 cupful chopped English
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls baking soda
walnut meats
2 tablespoonfuls sour milk
3 eggs
Flour
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add salt, eggs well beaten, soda
mixed with milk, spices, raisins, nuts, and enough flour to make stiff dough.
About 5 cupfuls flour will be sufficient. Roll out, cut with cooky cutter,
lay on Criscoed tins and bake in moderate oven from ten to twelve minutes.
Sufficient for sixty cookies.
Fruit Drop Cakes
1 cupful sugar
4 tablespoonfuls chopped nut
1/2 cupful Crisco
meats
2 cupfuls flour
2 tablespoonfuls chopped candied
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
citron peel
1 teaspoonful salt
3 eggs
4 tablespoonfuls currants
2/3 cupful milk
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add yolks of eggs well beaten.
Beat whites stiffly and add alternately with milk. Add sifted flour, baking
powder and salt, then fruits, nuts and extract. Divide mixture into
Criscoed and floured gem pans, and bake twenty minutes in moderate oven.
Sufficient for eighteen drop cakes.
103
Breads, etc.
Fruit Rolls
1 cupful milk
1/8 lb. chopped candied citron peel
1 yeast cake
1/2 cupful chopped English
1/4 cupful lukewarm water
walnut meats
1/4 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful currants
1/4 cupful melted Crisco
1/2 cupful sultana raisins
2 teaspoonfuls salt
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful powdered mace
1/2 cupful chopped cocoanut
Flour
Scald milk, when lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved in tepid water
and 1 1/2 cupfuls flour, beat well, cover and let rise till light. Add sugar,
salt, eggs well beaten, Crisco and enough flour to knead; knead, let rise
again. Roll out one-eighth inch thick, spread with melted Crisco, sprinkle
with sugar, cinnamon and mace, fruit and nuts; roll like jelly roll and cut
in one inch pieces. Place pieces in Criscoed pan, let rise, brush over with
melted Crisco, and bake in hot oven twenty minutes.
Sufficient for sixteen rolls.
Ginger Snaps
2 cupfuls molasses
2 teaspoonfuls powdered ginger
1 cupful brown sugar
1 teaspoonful powdered mace
1 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful salt
2 teaspoonfuls baking soda
2 tablespoonfuls boiling water
Flour
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add molasses, spices, salt, soda
mixed with boiling water and sufficient flour to make stiff paste. Roll
out thin, cut with small cutter, lay on Criscoed tins and bake in hot oven
from five to seven minutes.
Sufficient for one hundred snaps.
Ginger Gems
1 cupful sugar
2 eggs
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 cupful milk
3/4 cupful chopped preserved
3 cupfuls flour
ginger
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco and sugar together, then add eggs well beaten. Sift
flour, baking powder, and salt together and add alternately with milk to
first mixture. Now mix in ginger and divide mixture into Criscoed and
floured gem pans and bake in hot oven twenty-five minutes.
Sufficient for sixteen gems.
Gluten Bread
2 cupfuls scalded milk
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 cupfuls boiling water
1/4 cupful warm water
2 teaspoonfuls salt
1/2 yeast cake
1 egg
3 cupfuls gluten flour
Mix Crisco, boiling water, milk, and salt. When lukewarm, add
yeast cake dissolved in warm water, egg well beaten, and gluten. Let rise,
104
Breads, etc.
when risen and spongy beat well, add enough gluten to make a stiff dough
and knead well. Allow to rise, shape in loaves, place in Criscoed bread
pans, let rise, and bake for one hour in moderately hot oven.
Sufficient for two small loaves.
Golden Corn Muffins
1 cupful flour
1 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 eggs
1 cupful yellow cornmeal
1 teaspoonful salt
3 tablespoonfuls sugar
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, add eggs well beaten
and milk. Then stir in slowly dry ingredients which have been sifted to-
gether three times. Divide into greased gem pans and bake in moderately
hot oven twenty-five minutes.
Sufficient for twelve muffins.
Hominy Bread for Breakfast
3 cupfuls cooked hominy
2 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 teaspoonful salt
1 1/2 cupfuls cornmeal
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
2 cupfuls milk
Beat eggs, add milk and hominy. Sift in cornmeal, add baking pow-
der and salt; add Crisco. Beat all together three minutes. Pour into
deep Criscoed pan and bake one hour in slow oven. Serve hot.
Sufficient for one large loaf.
Health Bread
2 cupfuls flour
1 egg
3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
2 cupfuls milk
2 cupfuls whole wheat flour
1 cupful molasses
2 cupfuls bran
1 cupful stoned chopped dates
1 teaspoonful salt
2 teaspoonfuls baking soda
1/2 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful hot water
Mix flours and bran together, add Crisco, salt, sugar, egg well beaten,
milk, molasses, soda dissolved in boiling water, and dates. Mix well to-
gether and turn into two Criscoed and floured tins and bake in moderate
oven one and a quarter hours. This bread is excellent for constipation.
Sufficient for two loaves.
Honey Doughnuts
3 eggs
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1/2 cupful sugar
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
1 1/2 cupfuls honey
5 3/4 cupfuls flour
1 cupful sour milk
1 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco, honey and sugar well together, then add eggs well
beaten, mix well, add milk, lemon extract, flour, salt, soda, and cream of
105
Breads, etc.
tartar. Mix and turn out on baking board, roll out and cut with doughnut
cutter. Fry in plenty of hot Crisco. If a piece of bread browns in hot
Crisco in sixty seconds, temperature is right for doughnuts and fritters.
Sufficient for sixty-five doughnuts.
Hot Cross Buns
1/4 cupful sugar
1/2 yeast cake
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Flour
1 teaspoonful salt
1/4 cupful chopped candied citron
3/4 teaspoonful powdered
peel
cinnamon
1/2 cupful seeded raisins
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
1 cupful scalded milk
1 egg
1/4 cupful lukewarm water
Add Crisco, sugar, and salt to milk; when lukewarm, add yeast cake
dissolved in water, spices, egg well beaten, and sufficient flour to make a
stiff dough. Mix well, add raisins and peel, cover, and let rise over night.
In morning divide into pieces and form into neat buns; place in Criscoed
pan one inch apart, let rise, brush over with milk or beaten egg, and bake
in moderately hot oven twenty-five minutes. Cool, and with ornamental
frosting make a cross on each bun. The cross may be made by placing
strips of paste on buns before they are baked.
Sufficient for twenty buns.
Imperial Muffins
1/2 cupful scalded milk
1/3 yeast cake
1/4 cupful sugar
3/4 cupful lukewarm water
1/4 cupful Crisco
134 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful cornmeal
Add sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved
in 3/4 cupful of the water, and 114 cupfuls flour, cover, and let rise until
light, then add Crisco, cornmeal, remaining flour and water. Let rise
over night, in morning fill Criscoed muffin rings, two-thirds full; let rise
until rings are full and bake thirty minutes in hot oven.
Sufficient for twelve muffins.
Lemon Wafers
2 eggs
5 cents baker's ammonia
2 cupfuls sugar
5 cents oil of lemon
2 cupfuls Crisco
Flour to make stiff dough
2 cupfuls milk
2 teaspoonfuls salt
Cover ammonia with milk and let soak over night. Next morning add
sugar, Crisco, salt, eggs well beaten, lemon and enough flour to make a
stiff dough. Roll very thin, cut in squares or diamonds, lay on Criscoed
tins and bake from five to seven minutes in hot oven.
Sufficient for one hundred and eighty-six wafers.
106
Breads, etc.
Lunch Rolls
1 yeast cake
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 1/4 cupfuls milk
4 cupfuls flour
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoonful salt
Scald and cool the milk, then add yeast and sugar. Now add Crisco
and 2 cupfuls flour. Beat thoroughly, then add egg well beaten, remainder
of flour and salt. Mix and turn out on floured board and knead lightly and
thoroughly, using as little flour as possible. Place in greased bowl, cover
and set aside in warm place to rise two hours. When light, form into small
rounds, place one inch apart on greased pan. Allow to rise half an hour.
Brush over with Crisco and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes.
Sufficient for twenty rolls.
Maple Cookies
1 egg
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1 cupful sugar
3 tablespoonfuls hot water
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful sour cream
Flour
Maple sugar
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add egg well beaten, mix well,
add cream, salt, soda dissolved in water, and sufficient flour to make of
right consistency to drop from spoon. Grate some maple sugar on each
cookie and bake in moderate oven eight minutes.
Sufficient for forty cookies.
Maryland Beaten Biscuits
4 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful Crisco
Milk
Water
Mix and sift flour and salt. Cut Crisco in with knife or work in
lightly with finger tips. Mix a little milk and water together, chill thor-
oughly and add enough to dry ingredients to make stiff dough. Every-
thing should be as cold as possible. Beat with rolling-pin until dough
blisters. Roll to one-third inch in thickness and cut into small biscuits,
prick in center and set in refrigerator an hour before baking. Place bis-
cuits on Criscoed tins and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. Bis-
cuits may be baked in moderate gas oven and gas turned off when bis-
cuits are golden brown. Allow biscuits to remain ten minutes in cooling
oven to dry out.
Sufficient for sixty small biscuits, a fraction larger than a dollar.
Muffins
1 cupful scalded milk
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 yeast cake
1 cupful boiling water
1 egg
1/4 cupful sugar
4 cupfuls flour
Add Crisco, salt, and half of sugar to milk and water; when luke-
warm add yeast mixed with remaining sugar, egg well beaten, and flour.
107
Breads, etc.
Beat thoroughly, cover, and let rise until light. Put greased muffin rings
on hot griddle greased with Crisco. Fill half full with raised muffin mix-
ture and cook slowly until well risen and browned underneath. Turn
muffins and rings and brown other side. When muffins are cold, split
open, toast, and serve with marmalade.
Sufficient for sixteen muffins.
Nut Doughnuts
114 cupfuls sugar
1 cupful chopped English
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
walnut meats
1 1/2 cupfuls milk
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful lemor extract
4 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful sal+
Flour to make soft dough
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, milk, salt,
extracts, baking powder, nuts, and sufficient flour to make soft dough.
Roll out, cut with cutter and fry in hot Crisco to a golden color. Drain and
sift with sugar.
Sufficient for seventy-five doughnuts.
Oatmeal Cookies
114 cupfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
1 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
3 cupfuls rolled oats
1 cupful stoned chopped dates
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1/2 cupful sour milk
2 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, add eggs well-beaten,
rolled oats, dates, salt, spices, soda dissolved in milk, and flour. Mix and
drop from spoon on Criscoed baking tins. Bake in moderate oven from
ten to twelve minutes.
Sufficient for forty-five cookies.
Oven Scones
4 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful baking soda
5 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar
1 tablespoonful sugar
1 egg
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Sweet milk
Rub Crisco finely into flour, add sugar, salt, soda, and cream of tar-
tar. Beat egg, put half of it into cup, then with one-half and some sweet
milk make other ingredients into soft dough. Knead very little on floured
baking board, divide into five pieces, make them smooth and roll out,
not too thinly, cut them into four small cakes. Lay them on a Criscoed
tin, brush over with remaining egg and bake in hot oven ten minutes. A
few currants or raisins may be added if liked.
Sufficient for twenty small scones.
108
Breads, etc.
Raised Doughnuts
1 cupful milk
1 cupful sugar
1/4 yeast cake
1/4 cupful Crisco
1/4 cupful lukewarm water
2 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
Flour
Dissolve yeast cake in lukewarm water. Scald milk and cool, then
add yeast, half teaspoonful of the salt and flour to make a drop batter.
Set in a cosy place to rise. Cream Crisco with sugar, add eggs well beaten,
remainder of salt and nutmeg, add to yeast mixture with enough flour to
make stiff dough; let rise again. When risen, make into small balls and
place in a Criscoed pan to rise. When light drop into plenty of hot Crisco
and cook from four to five minutes until doughnuts are done. Drain on
soft paper and dredge with powdered sugar.
Sufficient for seventy doughnuts.
Raisin and Buttermilk Bread
4 cupfuls flour
2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar
5 tablespoonfuls Crisco
3 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful salt
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful soda
Buttermilk to make soft dough
1 cupful sultana raisins
Sift flour, salt, soda and cream of tartar into basin, rub in Crisco fine,
add sugar, raisins, eggs well beaten, and sufficient buttermilk to make
soft dough. Make into smooth mound, roll out, divide into four pieces,
lay on greased tin and bake in moderate oven twenty-five minutes.
Sufficient to make four small loaves.
Rich Doughnuts
1 cupful sugar
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls salt
5 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 cupful milk
3 eggs
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
4 teaspoonfuls baking powder
Flour to make soft dough
From 4 1/2 to 5 cupfuls flour sifted before measuring. Cream Crisco,
add sugar gradually, and leggs well beaten. Sift dry ingredients and add
alternately to egg mixture. Roll out as soft as can be handled. Cut with
cutter and fry in hot Crisco. Heat Crisco until crumb of bread becomes
golden brown in sixty seconds.
Sufficient for sixty doughnuts.
Rolled Oats Bread
2 cupfuls boiling water
2 teaspoonfuls salt
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 yeast cake
1 cupful rolled oats
1/2 cupful lukewarm water
1/2 cupful molasses
Flour
Add boiling water to oats and allow to stand one hour; add molasses,
salt, Crisco, yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water, and flour to make
109
Breads, etc.
stiff dough; knead well, let rise, knead a very little, divide into two Cris-
coed bread pans, let rise again and bake forty minutes in moderate oven.
Sufficient for two small loaves.
Rose Leaves
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
6 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful rose extract
2 eggs
2 cupfuls flour
Cream Crisco, adding sugar gradually, then stir in eggs well beaten;
add salt, extract, and flour. The dough should be soft. Now chill dough,
then roll very thin, using sugar instead of flour, to dust rolling-pin and
board. Cut out with small fancy cutter. Place on tins greased with Crisco
and bake in moderate oven eight or ten minutes or until slightly browned.
Sufficient for fifty small cakes.
Rye Muffins
1 cupful flour
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 egg
1 cupful ryemeal
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar
1 cupful milk
Sift flour, meal, baking powder, and salt together. Beat egg and
sugar together, then add them with milk and melted Crisco. Mix and
divide into Criscoed gem pans and bake in moderate oven twelve minutes.
Sufficient for twelve muffins.
Savarin
1 yeast cake
2 cupfuls flour
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful Crisco
3 eggs
5 tablespoonfuls lukewarm
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
water
almonds
1 cupful whipped cream
For Syrup ,
3/4 1b. lump sugar
3 cupfuls water
3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice
For cake. Put yeast cake into cup, add 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1
tablespoonful flour, and lukewarm water. Allow to rise ten minutes.
Put flour into basin, add salt, remainder of sugar, almonds, yeast mixture,
eggs well beaten, and Crisco melted and cooled. Beat ten minutes with
wooden spoon. Turn into Criscoed tube mold. Allow to rise until doubled.
in size, then bake in quick oven forty-five minutes. Mold should be sprin-
kled over with shredded almonds.
For syrup. Boil sugar and water for almost forty-five minutes, then
add lemon juice. Soak cake with syrup and when cold serve with cream
in center.
Sufficient for one savarin.
110
Breads, etc.
Shortbread Cookies
2 1/2 cupfuls flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful Crisco
egg
1/2 cupful sugar
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Beat Crisco, sugar, and salt to cream. Add gradually egg well beaten,
flour, and flavoring. Knead lightly on floured baking board, then roll
out one-fourth inch thick and cut into small rounds. Mark them with
fork, lay on Criscoed tins and bake in moderate oven from ten to fifteen
minutes.
Sufficient for forty cookies.
Soda Beaten Biscuit
1 quart flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/5 teaspoonful baking soda
Buttermilk
Sift flour with soda and salt, then rub in Crisco thoroughly with
finger tips, and mix to stiff dough with buttermilk. Beat with rolling-pin
or hammer until dough blisters. Roll out one-third inch in thickness, cut
with round cutter, and lay on Criscoed tins. Bake in moderate oven from
thirty to forty minutes.
Sufficient for forty biscuits.
Sour Milk Biscuits
(Kate B. Vaughn)
2 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful salt
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
1 cupful sour milk
Sift flour and salt into basin, rub Crisco lightly into them. Stir soda
into milk until it effervesces and then add to flour. Turn out on floured
baking board, knead lightly until smooth, roll out quarter of an inch thick,
cut with biscuit cutter, place on greased tin and bake twelve to fifteen
minutes in hot oven.
Sufficient to make twelve biscuits.
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful melted Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking soda
2 cupfuls sour milk
Legg
1 tablespoonful sugar
Sift dry ingredients, add milk, well beaten egg, and melted Crisco.
Drop by spoonfuls on hot griddle, greased with Crisco. Cook until browned,
then turn and cook on other side. Serve hot with syrup.
Sufficient for eighteen cakes.
111
Breads, etc.
Sour Milk Tea Cakes
1 cupful cornmeal
2 cupfuls flour
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
3/4 cupful sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1 1/2 cupfuls sour milk
1 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
Beat up the eggs, add meal and milk and mix well, add flour, sugar,
soda, and salt sifted together. Now add extract and Crisco, melted, and
beat two minutes. Divide into Criscoed and floured gem pans and bake
in moderate oven fifteen minutes.
Sufficient for sixteen cakes.
Steamed Nut Bread
1/2 pint graham flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/3 cupful Crisco
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful white flour
1 cupful milk
1 cupful chopped English
1 cupful sugar
walnut meats
1 egg
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add egg well beaten, milk, salt,
flours, baking powder, and nuts. Mix and turn into Criscoed mold, cover
with greased paper and steam two hours. This nut bread is delicious served
hot with butter. It may be served as a pudding with cream or liquid sauce.
Sufficient for one loaf.
Southern Spoon Bread
3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 quart milk
2 cupfuls cornmeal
1 teaspoonful salt
3 eggs
Heat milk to boiling point, then stir in meal and salt; add Crisco and
cook five minutes. Cool mixture, add yolks of eggs well beaten, then beat
whites of eggs to stiff froth and fold in. Pour batter into Criscoed two-
quart pan and bake in moderate oven forty minutes. Serve while hot,
using a spoon with which to serve it. This is especially good served with
roast pork.
Sufficient for one large pan of bread.
Spice Cookies
3 eggs
1 teaspoonful salt
1 1/2 cupfuls brown sugar
1 teaspoonful powdered
1 cupful Crisco
cinnamon
1 cupful molasses
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
1/2 cupful sour milk
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves
2 teaspoonfuls baking soda
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoonful black pepper
1/2 teaspoonful baking powder
Flour to make a stiff dough
Beat eggs five minutes, then add sugar and beat five minutes, then
add Crisco and beat until thoroughly mixed, add molasses, milk, soda,
salt, spices, baking powder, and enough flour to make stiff dough. Leave
mixture in basin until following day. Take pieces of dough and roll out,
cut with small cutter, lay on Criscoed tins and bake in moderate oven
from seven to ten minutes.
Sufficient for ninety cookies.
112
Breads, etc.
Swedish Coffee Bread
2 cupfuls hot milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
3/4 cupful sugar
15 cardamom seeds
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 yeast cake
2 cupfuls flour
Remove seeds from cardamoms and grind fine, add to hot milk with
Crisco, sugar, and salt. When lukewarm add yeast cake mixed with a
little tepid water and flour. Mix and allow to rise. Then add flour enough
to make stiff dough. Knead and let rise again, then make into rolls or
loaves. Let rise again and bake in moderate oven till ready.
Sufficient for eighteen rolls or two small loaves.
Swedish Rye Bread
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 yeast cake
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
3 cupfuls rye flour
2 teaspoonfuls salt
1 cupful white flour
4 cupfuls boiling water
In evening add Crisco, sugar, and salt to boiling water; cool, add
yeast cake mixed with a little tepid water or sugar, rye flour and white
flour. Allow to rise and in morning add more white flour, a little at a time,
to make a stiff dough. Let rise, knead again and bake in Criscoed pie
tins or cake tins as it will rise better than if baked in bread tins. Bake in
hot oven half hour. When taken out of oven brush crust with a little
melted Crisco.
Sufficient for four loaves.
Twin Biscuits
1 cupful milk
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 cupfuls flour
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together, rub in Crisco with tips of
fingers, then add milk. Pat and roll out dough, cut with cutter, brush with
melted Crisco, place one on top of another, lay on Criscoed tin and bake
in hot oven from ten to twelve minutes.
Sufficient for twelve biscuits.
Waffles
3 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
1 tablespoonful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
2 cupfuls sour milk
2 eggs
Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, yolks of eggs well
beaten, melted Crisco, and whites of eggs beaten to stiff froth; cook on
hot waffle iron greased with Crisco. Serve with maple syrup, or honey
and butter.
Waffles may be served for breakfast, luncheon, supper or high tea. A
waffle iron should fit closely on range, be well heated on one side, turned,
heated on other side, and thoroughly greased with Crisco before iron is
filled. In filling, put tablespoonful of mixture in each compartment near
113
Breads, etc.
the center of iron, cover, and mixture will spread to fill iron. If sufficiently
heated, it should be turned almost as soon as filled and covered. In using
new iron, special care must be taken in greasing, or waffles. will stick.
Sufficient for six waffles.
White Cookies
2 cupfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful thick sour milk
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
2 eggs
3/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
Flour
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, soda mixed
with sour milk, salt, extracts, and about 5 cupfuls flour. Roll very thin,
cut with cookie cutter, lay on Criscoed tins, bake in moderately hot oven
five minutes. To keep any length of time, when cold, place in covered
tin cans and set in cool place, and they will be as crisp as when first baked.
Sufficient for ninety cookies.
Yorkshire Fruit Loaves
2 lbs. flour
1 cupful sultana raisins
3/4 cupful Crisco
1 cupful currants
1 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful seeded raisins
2 cupfuls milk
1/2 cupful chopped candied
1 yeast cake
citron peel
1 cupful sugar
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
1/2 teaspoonful powdered mace
Heat Crisco in milk, then cool and add yeast cake mixed with a little
sugar; stir in flour and salt, and allow to rise four hours. Mix sugar,
fruit, peel, and spices into risen dough. Let rise again then divide into
two Criscoed loaf tins. Allow to rise fifteen minutes, then bake in moderate
oven one and a half hours.
Sufficient for two medium-sized loaves.
Water Bread
2 cupfuls boiling water
2 teaspoonfuls salt
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/4 yeast cake dissolved in
1 tablespoonful sugar
1/4 cupful lukewarm water
About six cupfuls sifted flour
Mix Crisco, sugar and salt, pour on boiling water; when lukewarm
add dissolved yeast cake. Stir in enough flour to make a batter; beat well,
then add more flour, a little at a time to make stiff dough, mixing with a
knife. Turn on a floured board; knead until it is smooth, elastic and does
not stick to the board. Put into a bowl greased with Crisco, cover closely
and let stand in a warm place over night. The first thing in the morning
knead again until fine grained; shape into loaves and place in a warm pan
greased with Crisco. Cover and put in a warm place. When double in
bulk, bake in a hot oven. Bake one hour.
114
Cakes
diamonds or rounds. Then they can be frosted or coated
with cream and decorated with cherries or other crystallized
fruits. If a real distinction is desired, they may be placed in
tiny crinkled paper cases, bought by the hundred at a trifling
cost.
Cake tins should be greased with Crisco and dredged
with flour, the superfluous flour shaken out, or they can be
fitted with paper which has been greased with Crisco! When
creaming Crisco and sugar, do not grudge hard work; at
this stage of manufacture the tendency is to give insufficient
work, with the result that the lightness of the cake is im-
paired.
Apple Sauce Fruit Cake without Milk
1 cupful brown sugar
1 teaspoonful powdered
1 1/2 cupfuls apple sauce
cinnamon
2 1/2 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
1/2 cupful Crisco
2 teaspoonfuls baking soda
1 lb. raisins
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, add apple sauce, flour,
raisins, spices, salt, and soda mixed with vinegar. Mix and pour into
greased and floured cake tin and bake in moderate oven one and a half
hours.
Sufficient for one cake.
Black Cake with Prune Filling
1 1/2 cupfuls sugar
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 cupfuls flour
3 eggs
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1 cupful milk
1/3 cake chocolate
For Filling
1 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful stoned stewed prunes
1/3 cupful boiling water
1/3 cupful blanched chopped
1 white of egg
almonds
For cake. Beat 1 egg in double boiler, add 1/2 cupful milk, 1/2
cupful sugar and chocolate; mix well and cook until it thickens. Cool
and set aside. Cream Crisco with remainder of sugar, add salt, eggs well
beaten, soda mixed with remainder of milk, flour, baking powder and
119
Cakes
vanilla. Mix well and add chocolate paste, and divide into two Criscoed
and floured layer cake tins. Bake twenty minutes in moderate oven.
For filling. Boil sugar and water together without stirring until it
forms a soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F., then pour it over
the beaten white of egg, beating all the time. Now add chopped prunes and
almonds and beat well. Put between layers of cake.
Sufficient for one good-sized layer cake.
Pound Cake
2 cupfuls sugar
12 eggs
2 cupfuls Crisco
4 cupfuls flour
2 teaspoonfuls salt
1/2 teaspoonful powdered mace
3 tablespoonfuls brandy
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, add yolks of eggs well
beaten, fold in whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add brandy, flour,
salt and mace, and mix lightly and quickly. Turn into a papered cake
pan and bake in a slow oven for one hour and twenty minutes.
Sufficient for one large cake.
Boiling Water Cake
1 cupful boiling water
1 cupful sultana raisins
1 cupful sugar
2 1/2 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 egg
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/4 cupful chopped candied
1/4 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
citron peel
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
Put Crisco and sugar into basin, pour boiling water over them; let
stand till cold, then add egg well beaten, sift in flour, salt, baking powder,
and nutmeg, add peel, raisms, and lemon extract, and mix well. Turn into
greased and floured small square tin and bake in moderate oven half hour.
Cool and cover with boiled frosting.
Sufficient for one small cake.
Butterless-Milkless-Eggless Cake
2 cupfuls brown sugar
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves
2/3 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful powdered mace
2 cupfuls water
1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
2 cupfuls sultana raisins
2 teaspoonfuls baking soda
2 cupfuls seeded raisins
4 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful baking powder
2 teaspoonfuls powdered
1 1/2 cupfuls chopped nut meats
cinnamon
3 tablespoonfuls warm water
Put Crisco into saucepan, add sugar, water, raisins, salt, and spices,
and boil three minutes. Cool, and when cold add flour, baking powder,
soda dissolved in warm water and nut meats. Mix and turn into Criscoed
and floured cake tin and bake in slow oven one and a half hours.
Sufficient for one medium-sized cake.
120
Cakes
Caramel Cake
For Cake
114 cupfuls sifted sugar
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 cupful granulated sugar
1 cupful cold water
1/2 teaspoonful salt
3 cupfuls flour
1/4 cupful boiling water
For Filling
1 teaspoonful Crisco
1/2 cupful brown sugar
1 ounce chocolate
1/2 cupful granulated sugar
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Pinch salt
1/2 cupful hot water
For cake. Put granulated sugar into small pan and melt over fire
till brown, remove from fire, add boiling water, stir quickly, return to
stove, and stir until thick syrup; set aside to cool. Beat Crisco and sugar
to a cream, add eggs well beaten, flour, baking powder, salt, vanilla, three
tablespoonfuls of the syrup and water. Mix and beat two minutes, then
divide into two Criscoed and floured layer tins and bake in moderate oven
twenty minutes.
For filling. Melt granulated sugar in small pan and stir until it
becomes a light brown syrup, add the water gradually, then brown sugar,
Crisco, salt, and chocolate, stirring all the time. Cook until it forms a
soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F. Remove from fire, add van-
illa, beat until creamy, then spread between cakes.
Sufficient for one layer cake.
Chocolate Cake
For Cake
1 cupful sugar
2 cupfuls flour
3/4 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1/4 cupful grated chocolate
1/2 cupful sultana raisins
3/4 cupful Crisco
1/2 cupful candied chopped
5 eggs
citron peel
For Chocolate Frosting
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 cupfuls powdered sugar
2 squares melted bitter
6 tablespoonfuls coffee
chocolate
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
For cake. Cream Crisco; add sugar gradually, yolks of eggs well
beaten, milk, flour, salt, baking powder, grated chocolate, citron, and
raisins. Mix and beat two minutes, then fold in stiffly beaten whites of
eggs. Turn into Criscoed and floured tin and bake for one and a quarter
hours in a moderate oven. When cold cover with frosting.
For chocolate frosting. Knead Crisco into sugar. Melt chocolate,
add coffee, sugar, salt, and Crisco, and stir until thick, then add vanilla
121
Cakes
and put away to cool. When cold spread on cake. This frosting may be
used any time. It is just as good made one day and used the next by add-
ing a little more hot coffee. It is always soft, creamy and delicious.
Sufficient for one cake.
Cocoanut Layer Cake
For Cake
1 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful Crisco
3 cupfuls flour
1 cupful milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 teaspoonfuls vanilla extract
4 eggs
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
For Filling
1 teaspoonful Crisco
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1 cupful sugar
1 white of egg
1 cupful water
1/2 cupful chopped cocoanut
Pinch cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
For cake. Cream Crisco and sugar together, sift the flour, baking
powder, and salt, and add alternately with the beaten yolks of eggs and
milk. Beat thoroughly, then add stiffly beaten whites of eggs and flavoring
and mix gently. Grease layer tins with Crisco, then flour them and divide
mixture into three portions. Bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes.
For filling. Boil water and sugar together, add Crisco and cream of
tartar, and boil until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F.
Beat white of egg to stiff froth, add salt, then pour in syrup gradually,
add vanilla and beat until thick and cold. Spread on cake and sprinkle over
with cocoanut.
Sufficient for three layers.
Coffee Layer Cake
Dark Part
1 cupful dark brown sugar
2 cupfuls flour
2/3 cupful cold strong coffee
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
3 yolks of eggs
1/2 teaspoonful powdered
1/2 cupful Crisco
cinnamon
1 tablespoonful molasses
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves
3/4 cupful raisins
1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoonful salt
White Part
3/2 cupful Crisco
2 cupfuls flour
1 cupful granulated sugar
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
3 whites of eggs
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
2/3 cupful milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
For dark part. Cream Crisco and sugar, add yolks well beaten, coffee,
molasses, flour, salt, baking powder, spices and raisins. Mix and divide
into two Criscoed and floured layer tins and bake in moderately hot oven
twenty minutes.
For white part. Cream Crisco and sugar, add milk, vanilla, flour, salt,
baking powder, then fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in two
layers. Put layers together and ice with following frosting.
122
Cakes
Put 2 cupfuls dark brown sugar and 3/4 cupful water into saucepan,
add 1 tablespoonful Crisco and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. Boil till
mixture forms soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F., remove from
stove, beat till it begins to cream, then add 1 cupful chopped raisins.
Spread on cake and allow to dry.
Sufficient for one large layer cake.
Cream Puffs
1 cupful water
5 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 cupful flour
4 eggs
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Put Crisco into small saucepan, add water, bring to boiling point, add
quickly flour and salt, stir well with wooden spoon until mixture leaves
sides of pan, remove pan from fire, allow mixture to become cool, but not
cold, add eggs, one at a time, and beat each one thoroughly in. Set in
cool place one hour. Put mixture into forcing bag with tube and force
it on to a tin greased with Crisco into small rounds; bake in hot oven forty
minutes. When cold split them open on one side and fill with whipped
cream sweetened and flavored to taste.
To make eclairs with this mixture press it on to tins in strips three
and a half inches long, and a little distance apart. Brush over tops with
beaten egg and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. Cut open one
side, then fill and dip top into chocolate icing.
Sufficient for fifteen cream puffs.
Cream Puff Balls
1 cupful flour
1/2 cupful water
1/2 cupful Crisco
4 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Put Crisco and water into small saucepan, bring to boil, add quickly
flour and salt, stir well with wooden spoon until mixture leaves sides of
pan, remove from fire, allow to cool, but not become cold, add eggs, beat-
ing each one thoroughly in. Turn mixture on to well Criscoed plate and
divide into small puffs or cakes. Put on Criscoed tins and bake a golden
brown in hot oven, thirty minutes. These puffs may be filled with pre-
serves, custard, or savory mixtures.
Sufficient for thirty puffs.
Crisco Fruit Cake
1 1/2 cupfuls Crisco
1 lb. seeded raisins
2 cupfuls sugar
1 lb. glace cherries
4 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful baking soda
6 eggs
1 teaspoonful salt
1 wineglassful brandy
1/2 cupful New Orleans
1/2 lb. blanched and chopped
molasses
almonds
1/2 cupful cold black coffee
1/2 lb. English walnut meats
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
(broken in small pieces)
2 teaspoonfuls powdered
1/2 lb. stoned and chopped dates
cinnamon
1 lb. currants
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves
Cream Crisco and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, beat five
minutes, then add coffee, soda mixed with molasses, brandy, flour sifted
123
Cakes
with salt and spices. Now add raisins, currants, dates, cherries cut in
halves, and nuts. Mix carefully and turn into Criscoed and papered tin
and bake in moderate oven two and a half hours. Brandy may be omitted.
Sufficient for one large cake.
Devils Food Cake
1 1/2 cupfuls sugar
2 cupfuls flour
1 1/2 cupfuls milk
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 cake chocolate
1 teaspoonful baking soda
2 teaspoonfuls vanilla extract
3 tablespoonfuls boiling water
2 eggs
Boiled frosting
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Put 1/2 cupful of sugar into small saucepan, add chocolate and 1 cup-
ful milk. Put on stove and stir till it boils five minutes, stirring now and
then. Remove from fire, add vanilla and set aside to cool. Beat Crisco
and remainder of sugar to light cream, then add eggs well beaten and beat
two minutes. Now add remainder of milk, soda dissolved in boiling water,
flour, salt, and chocolate mixture. Mix carefully and divide into two
large greased and floured layer tins and bake in moderate oven twenty-
five minutes. Turn to cool and put together with boiled frosting.
Sufficient for two large layers.
Peach Shortcake
2 cupfuls sugar
3/4 cupful Crisco
1 cupful milk
1 teaspoonful baking powder
5 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful salt
3 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful almond extract
Quartered peaches
Cream Crisco and sugar together, then add milk, eggs one by one,
always beating well between each one, flour sifted with baking powder
and salt, then add extract. Mix and divide into two layer tins that have
been greased with Crisco and bake twenty minutes in moderate oven.
Turn out and spread with butter. Put together with quartered and sweet-
ened peaches and pile some peaches on top.
Sufficient for one cake.
Strawberry Shortcake
3 cupfuls flour
1 egg
1/2 cupful Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful milk
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 1/2 pints strawberries
1 cupful whipped cream
Sift the flour with the baking powder, salt and sugar, then cut in the
Crisco with a knife, add egg well beaten, and milk. The dough should be
a soft one. Roll in two layers, spread in two Criscoed pans and bake in
a hot oven until a light brown color. Mash and sweeten one cupful of
the strawberries, put on one layer, then place second layer on top.
Sweeten remainder of strawberries, spread on top layer, and cover with
the whipped cream. Decorate with whole ripe strawberries.
124
Cakes
Fig Cake
1 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful Crisco
3 eggs
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 cupful milk
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 teaspoonfuls powdered
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
cinnamon
1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
3 cupfuls flour
1 cupful shredded figs
Wash and dry figs then shred them. Cream Crisco and sugar together,
add eggs well beaten, and beat five minutes. Sift dry ingredients, and
add to first mixture alternately with milk. Add figs and flavorings and
turn into Criscoed and floured cake tin. Bake one hour in moderate oven.
Sufficient for one small cake.
Gennoise Cake
3/4 cupful flour
1 teaspoonful baking powder
6 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 teaspoonful almond extract
6 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco.
Boiled frosting
4 eggs
Preserved cherries or cocoanut
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Break eggs into bowl, add sugar and beat for ten minutes over a pan
of boiling water. Remove from water and beat till mixture is thick and
cold; remove beater, sift in flour, salt, and baking powder; mix carefully,
add melted Crisco and almond extract. Turn at once into small square
greased and papered tin and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes.
Turn out and remove paper. Cool and cut in eight square pieces. Cover
with boiled frosting and decorate with cherries or cocoanut.
Sufficient for eight small cakes.
Gingerbread
1/2 cupful sugar
2 teaspoonfuls powdered ginger
1 egg
1 teaspoonful powdered
1/2 cupful molasses
cinnamon
1/2 cupful milk
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda or
1/4 cupful Crisco
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow-
1 teaspoonful salt
der
Sauce
1 teaspoonful Crisco
1 tablespoonful flour
1 cupful (1/2 lb.) maple sugar
1 egg
1 cupful boiling water
For cake. Cream Crisco and sugar together, add egg well beaten,
molasses, milk, soda, flour, salt, and spices. Mix and turn into Criscoed
tin and bake in moderate oven forty minutes.
125
Cakes
For sauce. Dissolve maple sugar in boiling water. Rub together
Crisco and flour. Add gradually boiling syrup; and lastly the beaten egg.
Then return to fire and stir briskly until thickened.
Sufficient for one small gingerbread.
Golden Orange Cake
2 cupfuls sugar
5 eggs or yolks of 10 eggs
1 teaspoonful salt
4 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful orange extract
1 cupful Crisco
1 cupful milk
4 teaspoonfuls baking powder
Orange icing
For cake. Cream Crisco and sugar together, add salt, eggs well
beaten, orange extract, and flour and baking powder alternately with milk.
Mix carefully and turn into Criscoed and floured cake tin and bake in
moderate oven about one hour. This mixture may be baked in layers.
For icing. Boil 1 cupful water with 2 cupfuls sugar till it forms
soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F., then pour over well beaten
yolks of four eggs, beat until smooth and thick, add 1 1/2 teaspoonfuls
orange extract and spread at once on cake.
Sufficient for one large cake.
Gold Cake
(Kate B. Vaughn)
3/4 cupful sugar
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
5 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful milk
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
4 yolks of eggs
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
Cream Crisco and sugar together. Beat egg yolks very light and add
to creamed mixture. Add dry ingredients, milk, and lemon extract and
mix well. Turn into a small Criscoed and floured cake tin and bake in
moderate oven forty-five minutes.
Sufficient for one small cake.
Hurry Up Cake
3/4 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract
1 1/2 cupfuls flour
2 whites of eggs
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 teaspoonful almond extract
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
Milk
Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl. Put whites of
eggs into measuring cup, add Crisco, and fill cup with milk. Add to dry
mixture with extracts and beat vigorously six minutes. Pour into small
Criscoed and floured cake tin and bake in moderate oven forty-five minutes.
Cake may be frosted if liked.
Sufficient for one small cake.
126
Cakes
Crisco Sponge Cake
3 eggs
114 cupfuls flour
1 cupful sugar
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful orange extract
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful cold water
Cream Crisco; add salt, yolks of eggs well beaten, and sugar, and beat
for five minutes, add orange extract and cold water. Beat up whites of
eggs to a stiff froth and add alternately with the flour sifted with the
baking powder. Divide into Criscoed and floured gem pans and bake in
a moderate oven for fifteen minutes.
Sufficient for twelve cakes.
Sand Cake
1 cupful Crisco
5 eggs
1 cupful sugar
1/2 1b. cornstarch
1 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
Cream the Crisco and salt, add sugar by tablespoonfuls, beating all
the time, then add the yolks of the eggs each one separately, then add the
cornstarch by tablespoonfuls, lemon extract and lastly whites of eggs
beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a papered cake tin and bake in
moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for one cake.
Lady Baltimore Cake
(White Cake)
1 cupful sugar
2 1/2 cupfuls flour
1/4 cupful Crisco
2 1/2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful cold water
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
6 whites of eggs
For the Filling
1 cupful sugar
Pinch cream of tartar
1/2 cupful boiling water
1/2 cupful chopped candied cherries
2 whites of eggs
1/2 cupful chopped candied
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
pineapple
For cake. Cream Crisco and sugar together. Sift together three
times dry ingredients and add alternately with water. Add vanilla, beat
mixture well then fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Divide into two
Criscoed and floured layer cake tins and bake in moderate oven twenty-
five minutes.
For filling. Put sugar and water into saucepan, stir till boiling, add
cream of tartar, then boil until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water,
or 240° F.; pour on to the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, pouring in a steady
stream and very slowly, adding while beating vanilla, cherries and pine-
apple, beat till thick and divide between and on top of cake.
Sufficient for one large layer cake.
Lemon Layer Cake
For Cake
6 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
3 eggs
12 tablespoonfuls flour
Grated rind 1 lemon
127
Cakes
For Lemon Filling
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
4 yolks of eggs
2 lemons
1 white of egg
3/4 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
For cake. Put the eggs, sugar, and lemon rind into basin, stand it
over pan of boiling water, and beat until warm; then remove from hot
water, and continue beating until mixture is stiff and cold; then add flour
mixed with baking powder and salt, and pass through sieve, add Crisco
melted but cool, taking care to stir very gently, but on no account beat it.
Divide mixture into two small Criscoed and floured layer cake tins, and
bake ten minutes in moderately hot oven. Turn out and cool, then put
together with lemon filling.
For filling. Beat up eggs in saucepan, add Crisco, salt, grated rinds
and strained lemon juice. Stir with wooden spoon over gentle heat until
mixture just comes to boiling point. When cold use.
Sufficient for one layer cake.
Lord Baltimore Cake
1 cupful sugar
2 1/2 cupfuls flour
3/4 cupful Crisco
2 1/2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful cold water
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
6 yolks of eggs
Filling or Frosting
1 cupful sugar
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1/2 cupful boiling water
1/2 cupful chopped raisins
2 whites of eggs
1/2 cupful chopped nut meats
Pinch cream of tartar
5 chopped figs
For cake. Cream Crisco and sugar together. Sift together three
times dry ingredients and add alternately with water. Add vanilla, beat
mixture well, then fold in beaten yolks of eggs. Divide into two Criscoed
and floured layer cake tins and bake in moderate oven twenty-five minutes.
For filling. Put sugar and water into saucepan, stir till boiling, add
cream of tartar, then boil until it forms soft ball when tried in cold water,
or 240° F.; pour on to stiffly beaten whites of eggs, pouring in steady
stream and very slowly, adding while beating vanilla, raisins, nuts, and
figs, beat until thick and divide between and on top of cake.
Sufficient for one large layer cake.
Lunch Cakes
1 scant cupful sugar
2 cupfuls flour
6 tablespoonfuls Crisco
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 cupful milk
1 teaspoonful salt
2 eggs
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Cream Crisco and sugar together, then add well beaten eggs. Sift
dry ingredients, and add to first mixture alternately with milk. Divide
into Criscoed and floured gem pans and bake in moderately hot oven
fifteen minutes.
Sufficient for fifteen cakes.
128
Cakes
Jelly Roll
4 eggs
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1 cupful sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
4 tablespoonfuls milk
2 cupfuls flour
Jelly or preserves
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
Beat eggs and sugar together twenty minutes, remove beater, sift
in flour, salt, and baking powder, add milk, extract, and melted Crisco.
Grease large flat tin with Crisco, dust over with flour, pour in mixture and
spread out evenly. Bake twelve minutes in moderately hot oven. Turn
out on sugared paper, spread quickly with jelly or preserve and roll up at
once. The cake will crack if spreading and rolling are not quickly done.
Sliced jelly roll is delicious with custard.
Sufficient for one jelly roll.
Marble Cake
2 cupfuls sugar
2 tablespoonfuls melted
1 cupful Crisco
chocolate
3 1/2 cupfuls flour
1 teaspoonful powdered
4 eggs
cinnamon
1 cupful milk
1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful powdered allspice
2 tablespoonfuls molasses
1 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco, add gradually the sugar, yolks of eggs beaten, until
thick, flour, salt, baking powder, milk, and egg whites beaten to stiff froth.
Mix carefully and to one-third the mixture add spices, molasses, and melted
chocolate. Drop in Criscoed cake pan alternately a spoonful of each mix-
ture, and draw spoon through once or twice to make colors lie in lines.
Bake in moderately hot oven one hour.
Sufficient for one medium-sized cake.
Marmalade Cake
1/2 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 egg
1 cupful marmalade
2 cupfuls flour
1 1/2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1/2 teaspoonful powdered ginger
Sift salt, flour, and baking powder into basin, rub in Crisco with
finger tips, add ginger and egg well beaten. Knead lightly to smooth
paste and divide into two pieces. Roll out pieces and line Criscoed dinner
plate with one of them. Spread over with marmalade, cover with remain-
ing piece of paste, pinch neatly'round the edges and bake in moderate oven
half an hour. Cut like pie and serve hot or cold.
Sufficient for eight pieces.
129
Cakes
Old Fashioned Seed Cake
2 cupfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful salt
1 1/2 cupfuls Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls carraway seeds
4 cupfuls flour
12 eggs
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, then drop in eggs one
by one, beating each one in well before next is added, sift in flour and
salt, add carraway seeds. Turn into Criscoed and papered loaf tin and
bake in moderately hot oven one and a half hours.
Sufficient for one large cake.
Almond and Citron Cake
1 cupful sugar
2 cupfuls flour
1 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful baking powder
5 eggs
1/2 wineglass brandy
1/2 1b. blanched chopped almonds
1/4 teaspoonful powdered mace
1/4 lb. shredded candied citron peel
1 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, beat in yolks of eggs one
by one, add almonds, citron, brandy, mace, flour, baking powder, salt,
mix well and fold in whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a
papered cake pan and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Cover with
boiled frosting if liked.
Sufficient for one large cake.
Walnut Cakes
For Cakes
1 cupful sugar
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful Crisco
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1 cupful milk or water
1 whole egg and 2 yolks of eggs
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 cupful chopped walnut meats
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
For Frosting
1 cupful sugar
Pinch cream of tartar
1 cupful water
1 teaspoonful lemon juice
2 whites of eggs
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
For cakes. Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, add eggs
well beaten, salt, vanilla, milk or water, baking powder, flour, and nuts.
Mix well and divide into Criscoed and floured gem pans and bake ten min-
utes in moderate oven. When cold cover with boiled frosting.
For frosting. Dissolve sugar and water over fire in a saucepan, add
cream of tartar and boil until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water,
or 240° F. Pour on to the beaten whites of eggs, pouring in a steady stream
and very slowly, adding, while beating, lemon juice, and vanilla; beat
until thick, and use.
Sufficient for fifteen cakes.
130
Cakes
Rose Leaf Cakes
1 cupful rose leaves
3 eggs
3 cupfuls flour
1 cupful milk
1 cupful sugar
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 lemon
1/2 teaspoonful salt
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, then add eggs well
beaten, flour, baking powder, salt, milk, grated rind and 1 tablespoonful
lemon juice, and fresh rose leaves. Divide into Criscoed and floured gem
pans and bake in moderate oven from twelve to fifteen minutes.
Sufficient for thirty-five cakes.
Scotch Shortbread
4 cupfuls flour
1 cupful Crisco
3/4 cupful sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoonful salt
Sift flour and salt on to baking board. Cream Crisco, sugar and egg in
basin and when thoroughly beaten turn out on board and very gradually
knead in flour. Make into two smooth rounds, pinch them'round the edges,
prick over top with fork, lay on papered tin and bake in moderate oven
thirty-five minutes. Leave on tin until cold.
Sufficient for two round cakes.
Silver Nut Cake
1 cupful sugar
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful Crisco
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder
4 whites of eggs
1 cupful chopped pecans or
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
English walnut meats
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful milk
Cream Crisco and sugar. Sift dry ingredients and add to Crisco mix-
ture, alternating with the milk; add nuts and vanilla extract. Beat egg
whites to stiff froth and fold in at last. Turn into Criscoed and floured
cake tin and bake in moderate oven thirty-five minutes.
Sufficient for one small cake.
Simnel Cake
3/4 cupful sugar
1/2 cupful chopped candied
3/4 cupful Crisco
citron peel
4 eggs
2 cupfuls flour
2 cupfuls sultana raisins
1 teaspoonful baking powder
1/4 cupful seeded raisins
1/2 teaspoonful almond extract
3/4 teaspoonful salt
For Filling and Icing
1/4 lb. ground almonds
2 eggs
2 cupfuls powdered sugar
1 teaspoonful almond extract
For cake. Cream Crisco and sugar together, add eggs well beaten,
flour, baking powder, salt, almond extract, raisins, and peel. Make filling
131
Cakes
by mixing almonds with powdered sugar, eggs well beaten and almond
extract. Line Criscoed cake tin with paper and place in half of cake mix-
ture, then put in layer of filling, then remaining half of cake mixture. Bake
in moderate oven. When cake is nearly baked, place remaining almond
paste on top and finish baking. Cake takes from one hour to one and a
quarter hours.
Sufficient for medium-sized cake.
Southern Fruit Cake
1 cupful sugar
3 eggs
1 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful powdered
1 cupful molasses
cinnamon
1/2 cupful sour cream
1 cupful seeded raisins
3 cupfuls flour
1/2 cupful currants
1 teaspoonful salt
1/4 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves
1/2 teaspoonful powdered allspice
Cream Crisco and sugar thoroughly together, then add molasses,
cream, flour, soda, eggs well beaten, salt, spices, and fruit. Mix well and
turn into Criscoed and papered cake tin and bake in slow oven one and a
half hours.
Sufficient for one large cake.
The Wholesome Parkin
1 cupful flour
1 egg
1/2 cupful melted Crisco
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
2 cupfuls fine oatmeal
1/4 teaspoonful powdered allspice
3/4 cupful molasses
1/2 teaspoonful powdered
3 tablespoonfuls sugar
cinnamon
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 teaspoonful baking soda
Melt Crisco and mix with molasses, then add sugar, egg well beaten,
salt, soda, spices, flour, and oatmeal. Mix and pour into small square
Criscoed tin and bake in moderate oven thirty-five minutes. This little
cake is excellent when a week old.
Sufficient for one small cake.
Whole Wheat Gingerbread
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
1/2 cupful seeded raisins
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful salt
2 eggs
1 1/2 cupfuls molasses
1 teaspoonful baking soda
1/2 cupful chopped nut meats
1/4 cupful milk
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
2 cupfuls flour
1/2 teaspoonful powdered mace
2 cupfuls whole wheat flour
1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
3 tablespoonfuls chopped candied lemon peel
Mix flours, then add peel, raisins, nuts, spices, and salt. Melt Crisco,
molasses, and sugar, then cool, and add them with eggs well beaten, with
soda mixed with milk. Mix well and turn into Criscoed and floured cake
tin. Bake in moderate oven one hour.
Sufficient for one large cake of gingerbread.
132
Vegetarian
very fine; blend Crisco with flour in saucepan over fire, add bean liquor,
beans, salt and pepper, and yolks of eggs; turn out on to a dish and set
aside till cold. Then cut out with cutlet-cutter or shape with knife; dip
in beaten whites of the eggs, then in fine breadcrumbs, repeat a second
time, and fry in hot Crisco. Serve on hot platter decorated with a few
hot cooked mixed vegetables. Sufficient for eight cutlets.
Devilled Bananas
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
8 bananas
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 teaspoonful chopped pickles
Few grains red pepper, or 1 dessertspoonful chopped chillies
Slice bananas, mix with salt, chopped pickles and red pepper or chop-
ped chillies and put them into hot Crisco. Cook for four minutes and
serve. Sufficient for eight bananas.
Cauliflower Snow
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
4 poached eggs
2 cauliflowers
Salt and paprika to taste
Toasted bread
Boil cauliflowers in salted water till tender, then drain and set near
fire till quite dry. Remove all green parts and press flower through a
potato ricer upon a hot dish, on which they are to be served. In no way
crush the mass as it falls from the ricer. Sprinkle over with melted Crisco.
Surround dish with poached eggs, each laid upon square of toasted but-
ered bread. Dust each egg with salt and a little paprika. Serve very hot.
Craigie Toast
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Salt and pepper to taste
4 eggs
1/2 cupful milk
4 tomatoes
Toast
1 teaspoonful chopped gherkin or capers
Skin, seed and chop tomatoes, add eggs well beaten, gherkin, milk,
salt and pepper. Melt Crisco, add other ingredients and stir over fire
till thoroughly hot. Serve at once on toast. The mixture may also be
baked in oven twenty minutes and then garnished with small pieces of
toast. Sufficient for four pieces of toast.
Excellent Lemon Mincemeat
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
2 large lemons
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
4 apples
1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg
1/4 1b. chopped candied lemon
1/2 teaspoonful powdered allspice
peel
1/4 teaspoonful powdered cloves
1 lb. currants
1 teaspoonful salt
1 3/4 cupfuls sugar
1/2 cupful seeded raisins
1/2 cupful chopped nut meats
Extract juice from lemons and remove pips. Now put lemons into
saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil until lemon feels quite tender.
134
Vegetarian
Change water at least twice, drain and pound peel to a paste, add apples,
cored, peeled and chopped, lemon peel, Crisco, currants, raisins, salt,
spices, lemon juice, nut meats, and sugar. Put into a jar and cover. This
mincemeat is excellent for pies and tartlets.
Sufficient for four pies.
Apple Tart
For Pastry
6 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful mixed spices
3/4 cupful flour
1/4 teaspoonful salt
3/4 cupful potato flour
1 teaspoonful lemon juice
1 tablespoonful sugar
Cold water
For Mixture
3 apples
1/2 lemon
3/4 cupful prunes
1/2 cupful water
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 tablespoonful cakecrumbs
For mixture, peel, core and slice apples, and wash prunes in lukewarm
water. Put these into a small saucepan with sugar, grated lemon rind and
cold water. Stew slowly until apples are soft. Then remove prunes, and
take out stones. Cut prunes in small pieces and return them to apples and
cool. For pastry, sift flours, sugar, salt, and spices into basin. Add
Crisco and cut it into flour with knife until finely divided. Then rub to-
gether lightly with finger tips until as fine as breadcrumbs. While rub-
bing, keep lifting flour well up in basin so that air may mix with it and
Crisco is not made too soft. Add lemon juice and sufficient water to make
stiff paste. Divide into two equal pieces. Wet a dinner plate with cold
water and leave it wet. Roll out one of the pieces rather thinly, and line
plate with it. Sprinkle cakecrumbs over it, then spread on mixture. Roll
out the other piece of pastry for a cover. Wet round the edge of the pastry;
lay other piece of pastry on, and press edges well together. Trim round
with knife or scissors, and mark neatly round the edges. Brush over top
with a little water or beaten white of egg. Dredge with sugar, and bake
in moderate oven forty-five minutes. Serve hot or cold. The tart may
be covered with boiled frosting.
Marchette Croquettes
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
Salt and pepper to taste
4 tablespoonfuls cooked
2 hard-cooked eggs
spinach
1 raw egg
3 small cooked potatoes
Breadcrumbs
1 tablespoonful chopped onion
Crisco flake pastry
Rub spinach and potatoes through wire sieve; fry onion in Crisco,
add spinach and potatoes, season with salt and pepper, fry a few minutes,
then set aside till cold. Roll out pastry, cut out some small rounds, then
place spoonful of vegetable mixture on half the number of pastry rounds,
place slice of hard-cooked egg on each, brush 'round edges with beaten
egg, press other round on this, dip in egg and breadcrumbs and fry in hot
Crisco. Serve hot. Sufficient for six croquettes.
135
Vegetarian
Mixed Vegetable Souffle
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1/2 lb. stewed onions
1/4 lb. cooked carrots
1 tablespoonful chopped
1/2 lb. boiled potatoes
parsley
3/4 lb. boiled turnips
Salt and pepper to taste
3 eggs
Chop onions, add vegetables mashed, then mix well, add Crisco,
seasonings, and yolks of eggs. Beat up whites of eggs to stiff froth and fold
them into mixture, then turn it into Criscoed fireproof dish and bake thirty
minutes in moderate oven.
Nut and Macaroni Savory
4 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
3 cupfuls milk
1/2 lb. chopped Brazil nuts
2 tablespoonfuls chopped
1 cupful boiled macaroni
parsley
1 3/4 cupfuls breadcrumbs
Salt, pepper, and powdered
2 eggs
mace to taste
Brown sauce
Cut macaroni into small pieces and put into bowl, add nuts, bread-
crumbs, seasonings, eggs well beaten, and milk; turn into well greased
earthenware dish, dot with tiny pieces of Crisco and bake in moderate
oven forty-five minutes. Serve hot with brown sauce.
Potato and Nut Croquettes
2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco
Few drops onion juice
2 cupfuls riced potatoes
1 egg and 1 yolk of egg
1 tablespoonful milk
1/3 cupful chopped nut meats
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
1/4 cupful cream
to taste
1/4 cupful breadcrumbs
Mix potatoes with Crisco, milk, yolk of egg, onion juice and season-
ings, and mix well. Put cream and breadcrumbs into small saucepan and
stir to thick paste, then cool; now add nuts, salt and pepper to taste and
half yolk of egg. Inclose some of nut mixture in potato mixture, making
ingredients into neat croquettes. Beat up remainder of egg with table-
spoonful of water. Roll croquettes in fine breadcrumbs, brush over with
egg, and again roll in crumbs. Fry in hot Crisco to golden brown, then
drain. Crisco should be heated until a crumb of bread becomes a golden
brown in forty seconds. Serve hot decorated with parsley.
Sufficient for eight croquettes.
Potato Sausage
1/2 cupful Crisco
1/2 lb. breadcrumbs
1/4 1b. chopped onions
Salt and pepper to taste
1/2 lb. cold boiled mashed potatoes
2 beaten eggs
Mix all ingredients thoroughly well together with wooden spoon,
then form into sausages; tie each well in cloth, and boil exactly as a roly-
136
Vegetarian
poly. If not to be eaten when newly cooked, put aside, and untie when
wanted This sausage is also good if oatmeal is added instead of bread-
crumbs, or it may be made half oatmeal and half breadcrumbs.
Sufficient for twelve sausages.
Potatoes Sefton
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1 yolk of egg
3 baked potatoes
1 tablespoonful cream
Salt, pepper, and red pepper
Chopped parsley
to taste
Watercress
Split potatoes in halves lengthways. Scoop out centers, rub them
through a sieve, add seasonings, melted Crisco, yolk of egg, and cream.
Beat well till light, then put mixture into forcing bag with tube, force into
potato cases which should be dried. Heat in moderate oven. Sprinkle
a
little chopped parsley on top and serve decorated with watercress.
Sufficient for three potatoes.
Rice a la Maigre
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 raw egg
1 grated shallot
1 cupful thick tomato sauce
1/2 cupful boiled rice
Salt, pepper, and paprika to
4 chopped hard-cooked eggs
taste
1 tablespoonful white sauce
3 baked tomatoes
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
Fry shallot in Crisco, then add rice, two of the hard-cooked eggs,
white sauce, raw yolk of egg, and seasonings. Stir over fire till very hot,
then turn out on to hot dish; pour over tomato sauce, sprinkle with
parsley and garnish with remainder of eggs, and baked tomatoes.
Rhubarb Pudding
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 cupful flour
4 tablespoonfuls sugar
1 cupful stewed rhubarb
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 lemon
Few breadcrumbs
Crisco a pudding dish and dust it over with breadcrumbs. Put layer
of breadcrumbs at bottom, then spread in rhubarb. Beat Crisco and sugar
till creamy, beat in yolks of eggs, add grated rind of lemon, sift in flour
and salt. Spread this mixture over rhubarb and bake in moderate oven
twenty minutes. Beat up whites of eggs to stiff froth, add one tablespoon-
ful of sifted sugar and half teaspoonful lemon juice. Drop in spoonfuls on
top of pudding and return to oven to brown lightly.
Spanish Rice
1/2 cupful Crisco
5 small onions
1/2 cupful grated cheese
1 cupful hot water
6 tablespoonfuls rice
Salt and red pepper to taste
1 can tomatoes
1/4 cupful chopped olives
Wash rice and put it in bowl, add Crisco, seasonings, cheese, hot
water, tomatoes, olives, and onions cut in small pieces. Turn into a Cris-
coed fireproof dish and bake in moderate oven one hour, or until rice is
tender.
137
Vegetarian
Timbale Molds
1 teaspoonful melted Crisco
1 egg
3/4 cupful flour
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful milk
Sift flour and salt into bowl, add egg well beaten, milk and Crisco.
Beat five minutes then strain into cup. Have kettle of Crisco on fire and
heat until cube of bread will become golden brown in sixty seconds. Heat
timbale iron in hot Crisco, let stand two or three minutes, then drain and
dip into batter to half inch of top of iron; submerge in Crisco and fry
until batter is crisp and lightly browned. Remove from iron and drain
on paper. If batter does not cling to iron, then iron is not hot enough. If
Crisco sizzles considerably, and batter case spreads out and drops from the
iron, mold is too hot. If iron is lowered too far into batter the case will
come over top of iron and be difficult to remove. Creamed dishes of all
kinds can be served in these cases. Cold custards, cooked vegetables,
fruits or ices may be also served in the cases.
Sufficient for forty cases.
Vegetable Pie
1/4 cupful melted Crisco
1 cupful sliced beans
6 potatoes
2 onions
2 carrots
4 tomatoes
1 parsnip
Pepper and salt to taste
1/2 head celery
Sufficient white vegetable
1 cupful peas
stock to cover
1 teaspoonful powdered herbs
Peel and slice potatoes and partly boil them. Then prepare parsnip,
carrots, celery and onions, and cook them for fifteen minutes. Grease
large fireproof dish and place in all vegetables in layers, with herbs, Crisco,
salt and pepper to taste. Pour in white stock, cover with layer of sliced
potatoes and bake in moderate oven for one and a half hours.
Sufficient for one large savory pie.
138
m
Eggs
should be cooked at once. The white "speck" always should
be removed from a broken egg, as it is easily distinguished
after cooking, and in anything of a liquid nature, such as
custards, sauces, etc., it would be hard and unpleasant.
Baked Omelet
1 tablespoonful melted Crisco
1/2 teaspoonful cornstarch
4 eggs
2 tablespoonfuls water
8 tablespoonfuls milk
Salt and pepper to taste
Beat leggs well, add milk and beat again, add Crisco, seasonings, and
cornstarch mixed with water. Turn into a Criscoed fireproof dish and bake
in moderate oven fifteen minutes. Serve hot.
Creole Eggs
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 bay leaf
2 tablespoonfuls flour
1 blade mace
8 hard-cooked eggs
2 cloves
2 cupfuls tomato pulp
2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley
Salt, pepper, and paprika
Pinch of powdered thyme
to taste
Slices of cooked ham
1 small chopped onion
Breadcrumbs
Fry onion, pepper, and parsley in Crisco till tender; add cloves, thyme,
bay leaf, and mace, cook three minutes, then stir in flour, and tomato pulp.
Let mixture boil stirring all the time then strain. Quarter the hard-cooked
eggs. Put layer of tomato sauce in Criscoed baking dish, then layer of
ham, then eggs sprinkled with salt, pepper, and paprika, then sauce, ham,
and eggs, last layer being sauce. Cover with breadcrumbs, dot with Crisco
and bake ten minutes in moderate oven.
Curried Eggs
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
4 chopped butternuts, or 6
6 hard-cooked eggs
chopped almonds
1 small chopped onion
3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch
1 chopped sour apple
2 cupfuls milk
2 teaspoonfuls curry powder
1/2 teaspoonful salt
1 lemon
Croutons
Boil eggs till hard, peel and place in cold water until required. Fry
onion in Crisco a few minutes, add curry powder, apple, nuts, and corn-
starch moistened with milk. Simmer fifteen minutes. Stir from time to
time. If too thick add a little white stock or water. Cut eggs in halves,
and lay them in the sauce with the salt to get thoroughly hot through.
Put eggs into deep hot dish, strain sauce over them, garnish with croutons
and lemon slices.
140
Eggs
Egg Croquettes
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 cupful chopped cooked
2 tablespoonfuls flour
tongue or ham
3/4 cupful milk
Salt, pepper, and grated
6 hard-cooked eggs
nutmeg to taste
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
1 egg
Breadcrumbs
Chop eggs and mix them with ham, parsley, and seasonings. Melt
Crisco, stir in flour, then add the milk and boil three minutes stirring all
the time. Now add egg mixture and if required add more seasoning. Cool
mixture then divide it into nine portions and make each into a neat cro-
quette; brush over with the egg beaten with a tablespoonful of water,
roll in breadcrumbs and fry in hot Crisco. Drain and garnish with fried
parsley. Crisco should be hot enough to brown breadcrumb in forty
seconds.
Sufficient for nine croquettes.
Eggs with Cucumber
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1/2 cupful stock
3 eggs
1 tablespoonful tomato pulp
1 large cucumber
Salt and pepper to taste
1 cupful tomato sauce
Peel cucumber, cut off ends and divide rest into two-inch pieces.
Remove center portion of each with a cutter or small spoon. Place them
in a Criscoed pan with stock; cover with greased paper and cook in oven
till just tender. Great care must be taken so as not to break the shapes.
Break eggs into saucepan, add Crisco and tomato pulp; season nicely
and stir over fire until creamy and just set. Place cucumbers on hot
platter and fill cavities with eggs. Cover with thick tomato sauce, and
serve hot.
Sufficient for five pieces.
Eggs with Tomatoes
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
2 tablespoonfuls cream
4 even-sized tomatoes
1 tablespoonful chopped
8 rounds buttered toast
pimiento
3 eggs
Salt and pepper to taste
Parsley
Select ripe tomatoes but do not have them too large; remove stems
and cut each in halves crossways; remove cores and pips, and fry lightly
in two tablespoonfuls Crisco. Have rounds of buttered toast a little larger
than tomatoes. Beat eggs in small saucepan, add cream, pimientos, rest
of Crisco, seasonings, and stir over fire until creamy and just setting. Place
each half tomato on round of toast, divide egg mixture into tomatoes,
garnish with parsley and serve hot.
141
Candies
Next comes the "ball" (240° F. to 250° F.) Dip the finger
and thumb first into cold water, and then into the syrup, the
latter then can be rolled into a soft ball between the finger
and thumb. A little longer boiling gives the hard ball. This
in turn is succeeded by the "crack" (290° F. to 300° F.) To
test this, drop a little of the syrup into cold water; if it then
breaks off sharp and crisp it has reached the crack. The
final stage is the "caramel" (350° F.) which comes very quickly
after the crack, the syrup becoming first a pale yellow, and
then a rich golden brown, and finally black or burnt. When
it first reaches this stage the pan should be removed from the
fire, a little lemon juice or water added, and then the whole
reboiled to the proper stage or shade. To prevent granu-
lation, it often is advisable to add a pinch of cream of tartar,
to the pound of sugar.
Chocolate Fudge
1 cupful milk
2 cupfuls sugar
Pinch of salt
1/2 tablespoonful Crisco
2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Put Crisco, milk, sugar, salt, and chocolate into saucepan, and stir
and boil until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water, or 240° F.
Remove from fire, add extract, allow to stand a minute, and beat until
creamy. Pour into Criscoed tin and mark off into squares.
Clear Almond Taffy
4 cupfuls sugar
1 cupful water
1/2 cupful Crisco
2 cupfuls almonds
Pinch cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoonful almond extract
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Blanch, split, and bake almonds to golden brown. Crisco a tin, and
sprinkle almonds on it split side down. Dissolve sugar and water together
in saucepan, add Crisco, salt, and cream of tartar, and boil until when tested
in cold water it will be brittle, or 300° F. Add almond extract and pour
over nuts. When firm, cut in squares.
Sufficient for one large pan.
Cocoanut Caramels
1 cupful desiccated cocoanut
1 cupful milk
2 tablespoonfuls glucose
1 cupful cream
1 1b. brown sugar
1 teaspoonful rose extract
1/2 cupful Crisco
1 teaspoonful almond extract
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Soak cocoanut in milk for twenty minutes, then put it into a saucepan
with sugar, glucose, salt, and one-third of the Crisco, add second third of
Crisco when it forms heavy thread, or registers 230° F., add third piece
144
Candies
of Crisco, cream and extracts, when it again reaches 230° F. When it
reaches the hard ball stage or 250° F., turn at once into a Criscoed tin.
Cut when half cold. When all are cut, wrap each caramel in waxed paper.
Crisco Drops
1/2 cupful golden syrup
1/4 cupful water
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Put Crisco, golden syrup, water, and salt into saucepan and boil until
it is almost brittle when tested in cold water, or 290° F., then add vanilla.
Allow to cool down, and then drop on to Criscoed tin.
Sufficient for twenty drops.
Cream Candy
1/2 cupful water
1 tablespoonful Crisco, melted
2 cupfuls brown sugar
1 teaspoonful orange extract
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Dissolve sugar in water in saucepan over fire, and boil until it spins a
heavy thread, add Crisco and salt and boil until it forms a soft ball when
tested in cold water, or 240° F. Remove pan from fire, add orange ex-
tract, allow to stand five minutes, then stir until the syrup begins to "grain."
Pour quickly into wet tin. When half cold, mark into squares; leave till
following day in a cool place; then break up. Keep in airtight tins.
Sufficient for twenty small squares.
Crisco Fruit Fudge
2 cupfuls sugar
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
1 cupful milk
1/2 cupful chopped English
2 tablespoonfuls cocoa
walnut meats
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/2 cupful sultana raisins
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
2 tablespoonfuls cream
Pinch of salt
Put Crisco, sugar, cocoa, salt, and milk into saucepan, and stir till
it boils to 240°, or until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water.
Remove from fire, add raisins, cream, nut meats, and extracts, and beat
mixture until thick and creamy. Put back on stove, and heat, stirring
constantly until melted, then pour into Criscoed tins. When partly cool
mark into neat squares.
Sufficient for thirty squares.
Everton Taffy
1 gill water
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
2 cupfuls brown sugar
Pinch cream of tartar
4 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1/4 teaspoonful salt
Put sugar and water into saucepan; stir occasionally until it boils;
then add cream of tartar. Put cover on pan and boil five minutes, add
145
nit
Candies
Crisco and salt and boil until, when tried in cold water it will snap, or 300°
F. Add vanilla and pour into Criscoed tin. Mark in squares when half
cold, and break up when quite cold. Wrap in waxed paper.
Fig Fudge
Pinch cream of tartar
Pinch salt
1/4 lb. chopped figs
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1 1b. brown sugar
1 cupful water
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
Wash and dry figs, then chop them. Put sugar and water into sauce-
pan, and dissolve, add Crisco and cream of tartar, and when it boils, add
figs, and boil to a soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F., stirring all
the time. Remove pan from fire, add lemon extract and salt, cool five
minutes, then stir until it begins to grain, and quickly pour into Criscoed
tin. When half cold mark in squares.
Honey Squares
1 cupful strained honey
1/2 cupful cream
1 cupful brown sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1 tablespoonful Crisco
Pinch cream of tartar
1 teaspoonful lemon extract
Put Crisco, salt, honey, cream and sugar into saucepan; stir over slow
fire until dissolved, then add cream of tartar. Boil until it forms a hard
ball when tested in cold water, or 252° F. Remove from fire, stir in lemon
extract, and pour into Criscoed tin. Mark into squares before cold. Wrap
in waxed paper.
Sufficient for twenty-five squares.
Maple Candy
1 cupful maple sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/2 cupful brown sugar
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
1 tablespoonful Crisco
1 cupful water
Dissolve sugars in water in saucepan over fire, when boiling add
Crisco and salt and boil until it hardens when dropped in cold water,
or 258° F. Remove from fire and add vanilla. Pour into Criscoed tins.
When half cold mark into squares. Wrap in waxed paper.
Molasses Candy
2 cupfuls brown sugar
1/4 teaspoonful salt
1/4 cupful molasses
1 gill water
3 tablespoonfuls Crisco
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
Dissolve sugar in water in saucepan over fire, then add Crisco, mo-
lasses, and salt and boil until when tested in cold water it forms a hard
ball, or 254° F. Now add vanilla and pour into Criscoed tin. When
quite cold break into rough pieces.
146
